i'm tim carroll i lead microsoft's
efforts to support the global research
community
what is hpc
hpc is high performance computing but if
we go back a hundred years ago
computers were actually people the early
physicists realized that if they could
put more computers or people onto a
single problem they could get the
answers faster
fast forward to where we are today and
if one computer can solve a problem
5 000 computers can solve it even faster
that is hpc
i've been doing this for almost 20 years
now and what has been the most
satisfying about all of this about
working in high performance computing is
that it supports high performance
research and so we have the great
opportunity and benefit of seeing direct
outcomes from the work that we do in
supporting the researchers in their
effort to make other people's lives
better but when people hear high
performance computing it sounds they
immediately gravitate toward oh that
means super computers high performance
computing is really much more simple
than that it's actually a capability not
a thing and let me put it in terms that
potentially humanize it so that if we
think about what
high performance computing is a good
example of it is forecasting the weather
right there are two elements of
forecasting the weather there's getting
the forecast right writing the piece of
software that takes all of the inputs
and comes out with a forecast that's
accurate enough so that we can make
plans based off of that forecast but
there's another element of it we need to
be able to run that model and get the
results back in time frames that are
meaningful meaning we want to get 100
accurate forecast but if it takes five
days that doesn't help us tomorrow so
the optimal situation is to get 100
percent accurate forecast but that we
get it by tonight so that we can make
plans for tomorrow
so frequently when people hear high
performance computing they immediately
visualize huge rooms of blinking lights
and smoked glass and cables everywhere
in actuality the compute function that
we provide in high performance computing
is pretty simple right virtualization is
where i take a single computer use a
piece of software to make it look like
five different computers so that
multiple people can use it and make more
efficient use of that system
think of hpc as the inverse of that what
we're actually doing is taking
5 or 15 or 50 or 5000 computers
using a piece of software that enables
us to pull that compute resource
together so that we could tackle
problems that people could barely
imagine 50 years ago a hundred years ago
five years ago
i often use weather
and weather codes as an example of not
only capability but how hpc is used
because weather is one of the most
taxing
models and workflows that people can run
there are a large number of inputs and
it's very computationally intense and so
it's a good indicator of what's possible
on a system if you can run a weather
code efficiently
there is an open source weather model
called wharf
and that's used by a community of about
40 000 people worldwide who not only use
it but contribute back to the code
recently we ran a benchmark where we
were able to scale
meaning we were able to run wharf over a
hundred thousand cores simultaneously
now there are very few centers worldwide
with an on-premises supercomputer with
the ability to allocate a hundred
thousand cores to wharf
but what's significant about what we did
was not that we were able to run this
very large workflow compared to how
someone would do it on-prem what was
very important is that what we did
could be replicated if someone wanted to
by any of the 40 000 users across the
wharf community microsoft is delivering
the infrastructure and tools to the
global research community to uncap their
creativity and their capability
those who previously didn't have access
to hpc resources now have it and those
who are fortunate enough to have been
using hpc to solve their problems can
now expand their horizons even more
broadly our team supports the global
research community but more importantly
we're part of it
because we know that by enabling even
one more scientist with one more great
idea that ultimately it helps us all
