[Music]
so in my previous video I looked at
generally what kick mechanics is all
about and today I want to specifically
look at the concept of kinematics and in
my previous video I did discuss that
there are a number of variables that we
have in the study of kinematics and I
want to expand on those just a little
before you get headlong into graphical
analysis understanding of acceleration
forces and so forth so the first thing
is the concept that we have and I've
mentioned it is how that we measure
displacement now what is displacement
now often it's confused and I'm going to
use a different color here it's confused
with the ID of distance but the two are
not the same let me give you a diagram
to help you understand the difference
between the two so let's say you going
from town a oh he to town B that is he
very original names I know but it'll
suffice for us now you check out your
Google Maps and you discover that
there's no direct route there and so
you're going to take a number of paths
streets roads and so forth to get to
that point so you might go straight
might go up this way you might go back
forth like this and I get a lovely curve
and eventually you get to B now that is
the distance you travel try it yourself
go to Google Maps and you'll find that
if you go from one A to point B whatever
your points are that you're not going to
get a straight line between the two in
order to get there summer will be a bit
shorter let's say walking may be
actually a shorter path and let's say
driving but it won't be a straight line
this is what we refer to as the distance
however if I were to look at the
straight-line path that is from point A
to point B in a straight line like so
that is our displacement so you can see
that my displacement is actually the
shortest path between the two points
distance can be any path in fact you can
go around and around and around and have
a really long distance but your
displacement is always going to be the
same but the second aspect here is that
this aspect of heat which is at the
arrow displacement is more than just the
length of the path between the two
points it's also the direction which is
also critical so what we say is
displacement is a vector quantity now
what does that mean that means it has
it's a dimension a measurable quantity
that has both a magnitude and a
direction as soon as the magnitude
changes it's a different dimension if
its direction changes it's also a
different dimension
whereas distance is a scalar it's just
the size there's no Direction related to
it so generally in physics we are
interested in displacement not distance
now there are some exceptions to the
rule but generally that's the one you
look at and as I said before the symbol
we use there is s and in distance often
the symbol we use is D just to be
different to differentiate between the
two now we also have our measurement of
time which are gonna I'm not going to
write that is obviously a critical point
because often were interested in okay an
object's displacement has changed but
what's the time frame that's taken place
well if you remember from the previous
video we didn't have this concept of
velocity the velocity simply is the rate
of change of displacement so if I were
to put that in simple terms I would get
the velocity that's the symbol is equal
to the change in displacement so Delta s
Delta me simply means change over time
and that gives us the average velocity
now notice I use here displacement
that's critical why well there's another
variable that's often referred to but is
a little different and that's the
concept of speed again many try to
change those two that the velocity and
speed are the same thing but they're not
the first thing is that speed and I'm
going to use SPSS symbol is
not displacement over time its distance
over time the change of distance over
time and so you can see that the
magnitude of my speed might actually be
a different value your distance is
larger than your displacement then your
magnitudes of your speed is going to be
different and secondly the fact that
this distance is a scalar quantity speed
is a scalar quantity whereas velocity is
based on displacement which is a vector
quantity therefore velocity is also a
vector quantity we need a direction as
well with velocity so imagine this if I
were to let's say start from a and run
all the way around B and come back to a
my distance is quite large and my speed
can be quite high in terms of its
average speed but I could argue that
well I'm back to the original point so
my displacement is zero well my
displacement is zero my average velocity
ends up being zero so you can see the
difference between the two and the final
variable of course we need to talk about
is acceleration and what is acceleration
well acceleration is talking about how
fast my velocity changes so we're really
interested in the Delta V over time the
change in velocity
so like acceleration being based on
velocity and velocity being a vector of
elicitor and obviously displacement is a
vector acceleration is a vector as well
and so here as long as my velocity is
changing I have an acceleration how come
a velocity change well it can change in
the magnitude but it can also change in
the direction as well so as long as the
velocity changes we know accelerations
taking place now since it's a change of
velocity so we have acceleration becomes
a change of velocity and then often we
use these two symbols V and U to
separate my final velocity from my
initial velocity over time and as a
result we get an equation which we call
an equation of motion that ties in
velocity in time and acceleration so
there is the basics of our kinematic
analysis now if we really wanted to
study this well and see the
interrelationships between all of these
variables the best thing we do is we do
some data analysis
and we graph the data that we get and
the classic graphs that you get are
usually displacement versus time graphs
velocity versus time graphs and
acceleration versus time graphs and
using those graphs you can work out
other equations of motion but you can
also look at the relationships between
those variables that's the next video
have a look at that's my video on
graphing motion I'm Paul from high
school physics plained take care bye for
now
