what's up everybody it's Travis here
from travisdom media so I've been
telling you all for a while now to get
into the cloud if you're a developer
especially a new developer trying to
break into the industry you need to be
Cloud competent you need to create an
AWS account get in there get your feet
wet maybe go on to get certified but you
need to be Cloud competent every company
is in the cloud in some sorts or making
their way to the cloud and it's expected
of you to have some knowledge of it and
I've had videos on this how to get
certified I have a blueprint where you
can learn Python and AWS at the same
time but I have one main question that
comes up and it's around cost like how
do I sign up for AWS play around with
all of the resources and not spend a
fortune doing so and it's a little bit
intimidating at first compared to
something like digitalocean or lenode or
some other service that makes it really
easy like you get an AWS and it's just
super complicated so what I decided to
do was to create a video where I'm going
to actually sign up create a new account
I'm going to explain to you how to keep
everything completely free I'm going to
show you how to secure your account by
ditching the root user and creating your
own user I'm going to help you set up
the CLI and show you how to run terminal
commands and I'm even going to walk you
through spinning up an ec2 instance
creating a security key for it and all
of that stuff so if you don't have an
AWS account you've been a little
hesitant for signing up now's your
chance I'm going to walk you through it
I'm going to keep it completely free and
you're going to walk away from this
video with the right tools to start
learning cloud computing now later this
week I'm going to release a couple
videos where we're doing some fun python
Automation in AWS to help you level up
your python skills so if that interests
you go ahead now and create that AWS
account with me let's get started all
right let's start out by going to
aws.amazon.com free now for new users
you get access to this free tier which
you can explore more than 100 products
and start building on AWS using the free
tier and it tells you you get 12 months
free this many hours of like Amazon ec2
you get 750 hours if you use the t2
micro or T3 micro and you can look at
all this but basically you can start out
on AWS for free for like a long time and
I'm going to show you later how to not
overspend and how to keep your costs
like for me I think I spend like a
dollar a month on AWS but anyway go to
aws.amazon.com free and click on create
a free account
so first you're going to enter a root
user email address this is going to be
for your root user so I've used like two
of my emails in AWS so far I'm going to
add another one for this demonstration
so I'm just going to say Travis Raj
gmail.com go ahead and type in the email
you want to associate with this account
and I'm going to put Travis media also
for the AWS account name again put
something for you and click verify email
address and you should be getting an
email with the verification code for me
that's 394-518
and I'm going to hit verify and now set
a password so I'm going to set something
simple for now I'll change it later
something that abides by these
conditions here can't see it because of
one password but anyway all four of
these checked off that's good I'm gonna
enter the password again
and continue
and here's my contact information so I'm
going to use it as a personal thing my
full name
is this phone number
and my address I'm going to put in all
this information you put in your
information and we'll continue to The
Next Step The Next Step you have to
enter in some billing information
they're not going to charge you anything
so it says here we will not charge you
for usage below AWS free tier limits
which you want to stay in the free tier
at first we may temporarily hold up to
one dollar as a pending transaction to
verify your identity so make sure you
have a dollar in there but here put in
some kind of credit card it's not going
to get charged other than maybe a dollar
and so I'm going to do this and we'll go
to the next page as well the next step
is to confirm your identity I'm going to
do it via a text message so I'm going to
put in my mobile phone number
and security check which I can never
read this Let me refresh
in three DB pH and send the SMS
and then I need to verify my mobile
number so I should be getting a text
here
and that's continue step four or five
and select a support plan of course I
want to choose free I don't need
developer or business support so choose
free there and complete your sign up
that's it so thank you for signing up go
to the AWS Management console let's go
there because we're now in the root
account which we want to get rid of we
don't want to be using root accounts and
then you get to the sign in screen so we
don't know our account ID yet so just
click sign in using root user email
and punch in which you just signed up
with so
travisraj gmail.com
and click next
and the password
all right so you're in the AWS console
so the first thing you want to do is get
rid of this root account so up here in
the top just type in IAM for identity
and access management click on that
and you'll see here some security
recommendations so the first one is ADD
MFA for your root user so you do want
this for Extra Protection for your root
user so click on ADD MFA and click on
assign MFA
and I'm just going to say root MFA
and I'm going to choose an authenticator
app so click next
and I'm going to use authy
which is on my computer authy desktop
you can use Google Authenticator or
Microsoft authenticator whatever is best
for you but I'm going to click plus to
add a new one and enter code given by
the website let's get a secret key
copy that and paste it here
and click add account let's put uh
Travis Raj AWS root
and I'm going to scroll down and find
AWS Amazon web services click on that
and click save
and now I have a token so I can copy
this and paste it in my MFA code one
and then once this changes I'll paste in
code two
and if you do this on Google
Authenticator you'll just need to click
show QR code and scan it with your phone
so let me copy the second one
paste it here and add MFA and again this
just adds a extra layer of protection on
your account so that's great let's go
back to the dashboard and you still see
this as red just click on refresh and
see if that satisfied that requirement
yeah so root user has MFA and root user
has no active access keys so we don't
want to use this root account unless
we're doing some billing stuff I think
unless you maybe can delegate that to
another user but otherwise you don't
want to use the root account what we
want to do is go to users and create a
user that we're going to use like an
administrative user not the root user
but in an administrative user so click
add users
I'm going to put Travis media
put whatever user you want provide user
access to the AWS Management console you
want to do that and I'm going to create
an IAM user
custom password I'm going to punch in
something that I know
and users must create a new password at
next sign in if you are creating this
account for someone then you would check
this box and then when they sign in they
can create their own password at that
point but since this is for me I'm going
to uncheck that and click next
set permissions I can add a user to a
group but it's just me so I'm actually
going to go to attach policies directly
and administrator access this is going
to give me administrator access to
everything and since you are the
administrator this is okay if you're
creating for someone else of course you
want to get more granular click next
and create user
all right now do you see this console
sign in url this is going to include
that account ID that we didn't know
earlier remember we chose the root user
now we can use this sign-in URL that
actually has that account ID in it so
copy this and create a bookmark if
you're using whatever browser you're
using I'm going to go to bookmark
manager and choose AWS and up here I'm
going to do add new bookmark input
us but Travis raw jws user and the URL
and save it and that's going to be my
URL to sign into this AWS account with
that user so now I can return to users
list and that's okay continue and I have
one user that's an administrator now one
of the biggest issues with AWS is that
we create resources and then we forget
that they're there I've done it
everybody in AWS has done it you create
five ec2 instances and you go off and
you forget and then two weeks later you
have like a 10 15 bill you don't want
that to happen so what you want to do
now with the root account is to create a
billing alarm an alarm that goes off
when you've reached a certain threshold
if that happens so if it runs up to five
bucks it's going to alarm you and say
hey you're at five bucks and you're
gonna know oops I left something running
so if you just go to AWS billing alarm
we're just going to follow the
instructions so enabling billing alerts
let's do that first so open the AWS
billing console just click this link
it's going to take you to the billing
part of AWS after that in the navigation
pane choose billing preferences and
choose receive billing alerts so down
here billing preferences
so this just allows us to receive
billing alerts so I'm just going to
click here alert preferences go to edit
and I want a cloud watch billing alerts
and receive AWS free tier alerts why not
let's click that too and that's going to
be delivered to the root email address
so let's update it
and so we've enabled billing alerts now
let's go and create one and to create
one we got to go to cloudwatch so click
on this link next click on create alarms
here
to create a new alarm
let's click on create alarm choose
select metric and then here you want to
choose billing and I don't see billing
so let me see all right so here it says
before you create a billing alarm you
must set your region to us East
Northern Virginia billing metric is
stored in this region so let's switch
our region to us East one and we should
see billing
let's try this again select metric
and there's billing so choose billing
and then total estimated charge
oh here's the node if you don't see
billing then change your region to us
East Northern Virginia all right select
the box for estimated charges metric
then choose select metric for statistic
choose maximum let's go and
then choose the selection here so USD
estimated charges and select metric
metric name is fine currency USD
statistic maximum
periods six hours threshold type static
so whenever estimated charges is greater
than five dollars that's why I'm going
to set mine at so if you forget to cut
something off and it gets up to five
dollars or it estimates that it's going
to be at five dollars it's going to send
you an email saying warning you your
alarm went off and you're going to get a
five dollar bill then you'll know hey I
need to go and check and make sure I
closed everything down or shut
everything down in additional
configuration do the following for data
points to alarm specify one out of one
for missing data treatment treat missing
data as missing
so additional configuration one out of
one treat data treat missing data is
missing
so go to next and under notification
click add notification so Define the
alarm state that will trigger this
action when it's in alarm when we've
reached that five dollars or it's
estimated for the five dollars we want
to create a new topic we don't have an
SNS topic so let's create a new one SNS
is just a simple notification service
you create a topic and then that topic
you can decide who to notify so we're
just going to create one default Cloud
watch alarms topic let's put it as
billing alarm topic
email endpoints that will receive the
notification I'm just going to put my
email that's associated with this
and create topic
so we don't have to worry about Auto
scaling or ec2 action or systems manager
just click next alarm name
billing alarm and the alarm description
is optional feel free to put in some
kind of text but click next and just
look everything over looks fine to me
and create alarm so first things first
set an alarm so you don't go above a
certain threshold or a certain price and
I have a warning here it says this
action sends a message to an SNS topic
with an endpoint that is pending
confirmation and I have an email so
check your email and confirm that you
want to be
subscribe to that topic so confirm
subscription I'm going to click that and
subscription confirmed so now I can
refresh and I probably won't have a
warning anymore
great so we've set an alarm now let's
get out of this root account and try to
log into our user account so go up here
and click on sign out after this I'll
show you how to set up the CLI
so log back in and you see how if you
click IAM User it's going to ask for
your account ID which we don't know but
we saved it in our bookmarks so I'm
going to click that link
and it's going to add in that account ID
for me and it says IEM username which is
Travis media
and password
so again make sure you click that link
that was given to you when you created
the user that's going to populate your
account ID and then your username
password and sign in
and this is going to be the user you
want to use again don't use the root
user so first things first go up to your
name and go to security credentials
and we're going to set up MFA because
you should always be using some kind of
multi-factor Never Should depend on your
password and actually you should create
a much more secure password that you
don't even know and put it in something
like one password that's what I'll do
when I finish this video I just put in
something temporarily for now
and it warns us at the top you don't
have MFA assigned so let's assign that
device name I'm just going to put a
Travis Raj MFA
user
and next
and again I'm going to use authy so I'm
going to click the Plus
and grab the secret key
paste it hit add account
find AWS save it
and then I'm going to enter my MFA codes
oh I'm going to add an account name AWS
trans
I'm going to copy this paste it in MFA
code one
copy the second one
paste it in code two and add MFA so next
time when I sign in I'll put in my
password then it'll ask me my MFA I'm
going to go to authy and copy and paste
now the next thing you want to do is set
up your AWS CLI since we're developers
we need to be using the CLI so if you
just type in AWS CLI which is the
command line interface click this
and then go to somewhere there will be a
getting started and then somewhere under
here there's an install slash update
page and I'm on Mac so I would just
click this in
run this installer so in your browser
download the Mac OS package file and
click this install it and it's good to
go now to link that AWS CLI with your
AWS account go back to the security
credentials that you are at and go down
to access keys so we're going to create
an access key
it's going to be to the command line
interface
and they're giving me some Alternatives
here like better to use cloud shell and
things like that which we can use too
but let's let me show you how to set
this up so click that box click next
description tag I don't care to do that
create access key and I have two things
here I have an access key code and then
a secret access key code so to configure
the AWS CLI just open your terminal
make it bigger and you should be able to
do AWS to see that you installed it
correctly
but I'm going to say AWS configure this
is how you configure it and it'll ask
you your
access key so copy this
paste it
it's going to ask you your secret access
key so click the copy here
paste it and default region name I'm
going to do us East one works for me
and default output format I do like Json
and once that's done I should be able to
because I'm an administrator do
something like AWS S3 LS I don't have
any S3 buckets but it should list them
if I had them
and if you go back to your CLI
documentation here you can go to like
using the AWS CLI
um and click on something like Amazon
ec2
ec2 instances and it'll give you some
examples like launching your instance or
tagging your instance connecting to your
instance listing your instances so AWS
ec2 describe instances you could do that
if you wanted to again we don't have any
instances so you've set up your user I
can click done here
and it says you haven't viewed or
downloaded your secret key the thing
about secret Keys is you can always
create a new one
so you have an access key you can create
a new one and then you can deactivate
this one if you forget it it's not a big
deal I don't write it down I wouldn't
copy and paste it anywhere I would just
AWS configure and use it and then for
some reason it gets wiped out just
deactivate it or delete it create a new
one if you're by yourself if you're with
a company they obviously have their own
protocols but you've created your user
you've set up MFA you've got your CLI
running now what do you want to do go to
Services go to ec2 Let's create an
instance I'll show you how to do this
free tier thing and by the way you
should have gotten an email like right
here it says for the next 12 months
you'll have access you'll have free
access to core AWS compute storage
database and application services within
the limits of free tier you can click on
this free tier link and look into what
that entails but as far as setting up an
ec2 instance just go to instances and
launch instance and I'm just going to
say test server for my name
and I'm going to choose Amazon Linux
because it's in the free tier so right
here T2 micro
is free tier eligible always look for
that free tier eligible writing I always
use it it does everything I need to I
mean don't try to run a kubernetes
cluster on it but it does everything
you'll need to so choose T2 Micro Key
pair you need a key pair to be able to
SSH into that so let's create a new one
because we haven't yet so say Travis key
pair
test key pair
and RSA is fine Pim is fine create key
pair and I'm going to save it somewhere
safe which for me is my desktop because
I'm going to delete it after this
and so I have a key bear I'll show you
how to use that in a minute
VPC this is like the default subnet no
preference we don't want to get into all
that you can check out my AWS networking
video for information on those a
firewall let's select an existing
Security Group which we just have the
default and let's actually create one
we're going to create one and we're
going to allow SSH traffic from anywhere
so we can test our key out and the rest
of this doesn't matter storage Advanced
details just click launch instance don't
be worried about price it's free tier
eligible if it wasn't it's like a penny
per hour I think I think it's a penny
per hour so if you leave it running
for like three hours is three cents
that's why sometimes when I'm testing
things I just spin up five for like an
hour it's like five cent in the end of
the month I have a bill for like a
dollar two dollars maybe three dollars
and it's no problem
so view all instances now I see my
instance here and it is pending so if I
click on this I can go down to uh see
what my key pair is I forgot the name
Travis test key pair so I should be able
to go here
um and make sure I'm in my desktop and
then what's neat is if you click on this
and go to connect
you can actually just click connect and
connect to it from within Amazon so I
can click this and it's going to give me
a terminal to use but if you want to do
it yourself just go to SSH client and
copy this well the first thing you need
to do is modify your privileges on your
Pim key right you want to make it a 400
it's a CH mod 400 you want to run this
command
and my desktop is where I saved it so
run that to make the permissions really
tight otherwise it won't work I don't
think Amazon will even work with a Pim
key that's not a 400 and then next you
can just copy this example direct so
click that
paste it SSH Dash I which specifies my
Pim key
ec2 user which is like the default user
for ec2 instances and the public DNS of
the instance so click that
yes that's fine and I should be able to
ec2n
sudo yum update
and I can do what I want but again you
can just go to ec2 instance connect and
connect directly
so click on Services look around you got
the console home you got Lambda
functions vpcs cloudtrail S3 buckets
Cloud watch and let's go back to our CLI
now we can do let's exit out of this
now we can do that command that AWS ec2
describe instances and it should
describe that one instance we have so
reservations and then we have instances
we have an array of instances but we
only have one so here's all the
information about that instance and AWS
CLI is pretty neat you can put in
parameters there to just get the data
you need
so I don't think I have anything else to
show you you are in AWS now you don't
have any excuse play around you're free
tier eligible just look for that free
tier eligible wording when you go to
spin up a resource and again consult
this page for what you can do compute
databases like if you go to databases
you can create an RDS database dynamodb
database you got storage the Amazon S3
five gigs 12 months free
containers
750 hours
web apps serverless so Lambda is like
the cheapest thing in the world
1 million free requests per month SNS
sqs
all of that it's like 1 million for free
per month so have at it again I'm going
to be doing some videos here in the next
couple of days with python and AWS just
for fun some challenges for you some
ways to get your feet wet so if you like
this video give it a good thumbs up
consider subscribing and I'll see you in
the next one
[Music]
foreign
[Music]
