hi guys in this lesson i will explain
the basic structure and working
principle of mosfets used in switching
boosting or power balancing tasks in dc
to dc converter circuits motor driver
circuits and many more power electronic
circuits
mosfets are the most widely used field
effect transistors that operate with
voltage control
we can examine fets in two groups as you
can see here we had a lesson in which i
explained jfent before i'll explain the
mosfet in this trouble
the abbreviation of mosfet comes from
the initials of the metal oxide
semiconductor field effect transistor
words
you see the shape of a mosfet transistor
on the left and the symbol on the right
mosfet also has three pins
as in jfet one of them is gate the other
is drain and the last is source
pin names are the same in mosfet as in
jfat
their order is not always like this
locations may vary depending on the
model
g d and s abbreviations are used for
these
in the symbol the pin naming is like
this
we can compare the structure of the
mosfet to a faucet as in all transistors
we can think of the gate pin where the
trigger is made as the valve of the
faucet and between the drain to source
where the current passes as the
direction in which the water flows in
the faucet
when a trigger voltage is applied
between gate and source a current
between drainage source is controlled
mosfets are produced in two ways
n-channel and p-channel in the symbol
the outward arrow on the gate pin is
n-channel and the inward one is
p-channel
if you remember it was the opposite in
j-fet
so what's the difference between them
the working principle of both is the
same
the direction of the controlled current
in n-channel mosfet is from drain to
source while the direction of controlled
current in p-channel mosfet is from
source to drain
in other words while the positive or
plus pole of the voltage source is
connected to the drain pin of the mosfet
in n-channel mosfet the positive or plus
pole of the voltage source is connected
to the source pin of the mosfet in
p-channel mosfet
let's compare mosfet bjt and jfetch
transistors according to the current
they can withstand
while currents close to 1 amp and under
1 amp can be controlled with bjt and
jfet transistors much larger currents
can be controlled with mosfet
transistors we can see this by looking
at the data sheet of some mosfet
transistors
for example when we look at the data
sheet information of the very widely
used
irfz-44 mosfet there is information that
current can be controlled up to a
maximum current of 49 amps this current
value is really a great value in
addition a maximum voltage of 55 volts
can be controlled with this mosfet
when we look at the data sheet of irf
540 mosfet another widely used mosfet
there is information that a maximum
current of 23 amps can be controlled and
a maximum voltage of 100 volts can be
controlled with it
the fact that a wide range and much
greater current and voltage control can
be achieved with mosfet increases the
attractiveness of mosfet compared to
other transistors
for example you see a dc to dc boost
converter here the circuit diagram for
this is basically the same as here
the amplification process is according
to the switching speed of the mosfet
located here
triggers are made at high frequency
values at the kilohertz level in this
way mosfet and shock diodes are
preferred in order to obtain healthier
results instead of using normal silicon
diodes in order to respond to high
frequency switching speeds in converter
circuits
dc to dc converters and motor drivers
using mosfets naturally get hot because
very high current flows through them as
such they need coolers
we usually see mosfets and circuits as
fixed to heat sinks that will dissipate
the heat like you see here
for example in the motor speed control
circuit you see on the right here there
is a heat sink fixed to the mosfet which
i show with the red arrow
we can see that there are heat sinks
connected to mosfets in this dc to dc
boost converter amplifier converter
circuit you see on the left well let's
look at the basic working principle of a
mosfet now
here you see a simple motor speed
control circuit with the circuit diagram
in the upper left corner
there is a small dc motor connected to
the drain pin of the n-channel mosfet
there is a dc source to drive this motor
here there is a potentiometer connected
between the gate and source pins of the
mosfet to provide the voltage to trigger
the mosfet
the reason for connecting a resistor
between the potentiometer and the mosfet
is that a reverse current in the mosfets
does not damage the circuit elements
connected to the gate pin
thanks to the resistor here the
intensity of that current is reduced
thus the circuit devices connected to
the gate pin are not damaged if we talk
about this circuit since there is no
damage to the potentiometer this circuit
will work smoothly even if there is no
resistor
now when we change the resistance value
of the potentiometer here a voltage will
be applied between the gate and source
of the mosfet
with this voltage the mosfet will be
triggered and the current coming out of
the positive or plus pole of our power
supply will flow between the drain and
source pins of the mosfet by following
the path we have shown with the arrows
and our motor will rotate with this
current
as the trigger voltage will change by
increasing or decreasing the resistance
value of the potentiometer the drain
current will change and the speed of the
motor will change according to this
current
we can also control the motor by
connecting a power supply that provides
a constant 5 volt voltage instead of a
potentiometer
while the mosfet is triggered above 5
volts it is not triggered at the voltage
below
for a better understanding of this motor
speed control circuit i built the
circuit on a breadboard with a 9 volt
battery we can control the speed of a
small dc motor with a potentiometer
thanks to the mosfet in this way
as here the working principle of systems
with big electric motor fans is the same
with mosfet we can control the speed of
a motor not only with a potentiometer
but also with a microcontroller as here
since the resistance value on the gate
pin of the mosfet transistors is very
large there is no current flow that is
the trigger part and the part connected
to the load are isolated from each other
as such mosfet can be easily used with a
microcontroller such as arduino
thanks to the 5 volt square wave
received from the pwm signal output of
the arduino speed control can be done
easily according to the duty value of
this signal that is by adjusting the
expansion and contraction of the signal
we can make the motor rotate fast or
slow
here the resistor connected to the
source pin of the mosfet provides
protection for the reverse current that
may come to the arduino microcontroller
since mosfets are easily affected by
static electricity and due to the
resistor used with it they are generally
used as driver modules not alone in the
circuit
thanks to these modules mosfet
connections can be made easily in the
circuit thus ease of use is also insured
for example microcontroller motor and
power supply connections can be made
easily when the mosfet is not a
standalone mosfet driver circuit module
as is the case here
when we look inside this module we see
the circuit here
the mosfet driver circuit module is
formed by combining the required
resistor and mosfet connections
thus the digital signal input load
connection and power connection to be
connected to the microcontroller are
gathered on a module to provide ease of
use
this is the basic structure and working
principle of mosfet which is used in
power electronic circuits and many other
electrical and electronic circuits
friends i hope it was helpful and you
liked it hope to see you in our next
lesson
goodbye
