good morning he's the man who warned
artificial intelligence was going to
take your job we believe the AI is going
to be a technological and societal
Revolution but in an announcement
yesterday that sent shock waves through
Silicon Valley it was revealed that Sam
ultman himself had lost his breaking
news Sam Alman is out this is a stunner
seen here with world leaders at the UK's
AI safety Summit earlier this month the
co-founder of open AI that the chatbot
chat GPT was the most prominent
executive in the fast growing sector and
the industry voice in efforts to
persuade governments that AI could be
safely managed and that the jobs of
today will get better but no more in an
ambiguous statement from open AI it was
revealed he was forced out following a
Board review which concluded that he was
not consistently candid in his
Communications with the board hindering
its ability to exercise its
responsibilities it's not clear what
he's alleged to have not been honest
about he's kept tight lipped saying in a
statement that he'd loved his time at
open AI so what now for the man who
facilitated many people's first taste of
an AI chatbot that seemed to have all
the answers and for the industry that
has mysteriously lost its star
[Music]
man well earlier I spoke to Amber CAC
who's executive director of the AI now
Institute and asked her how much of a
shock samman's Ting was uh is it a shock
I think absolutely I think even if there
were many of us that were were fairly
sure that the house was not in order
whether that is at open AI or or any of
these other AI companies I think seeing
um this kind of an outing of of a of a
CEO is is absolutely unprecedented in
many ways uh and we're still waiting for
the dust to settle I think theories
range from the numbers not adding up to
Major uh security or privacy lapses that
may have been covered up and but I think
even as we sort of uh wait for specifics
uh what's clear is I think that this
moment has really brought home the
dangers of really rapid
commercialization of aite tech without
any uh meaningful public oversight and I
mean in this world there's a sort of
pattern isn't there that you know you
have a character like Alman who is
regarded as a superstar a sort of rock
star of of tech
can these companies survive without
these really big characters at the
top yeah I think there's there's there's
the the Enigma of these characters at
the helm uh there's sort of these
Messiah that are talking about the
future potential of these Technologies
often uh unfounded in actual evidence
and so for the last several months
including at the recent AI Summit we've
all been kind of speculating about the
future potential of this of AGI and
artificial general intelligence which
you know depending on on who you are is
the best thing that will ever happen to
us or will kind of end the world as we
know it and meanwhile as you know as we
know from from what happened yesterday
the real conversation is much more
banile so in really simple terms what do
you think this does mean for The Wider
industry what do you think this means
for
AI I'll say what I think it should mean
I think this should be a wakeup call to
political Representatives all over the
world I think we should really use this
moment to Galvanize um political
momentum towards holding um these
companies and these individuals
accountable you say this is a moment as
much for governments around the world as
it is for the companies themselves
absolutely and that's because it is
governments that have been giving uh you
know people like Sam Alman and other
CEOs of the of AI companies the primary
seat at the table to decide what we
should do about regulating AI uh and I
hope that the events of yesterday um and
also the events leading up to yesterday
are another reminder to governments that
that needs to change and this
conversation needs to be driven by by
public and not private interest and and
and for us for members of the public as
you say who whose lives will could be
fundamentally Changed by AI what
difference will this make in the short
term do you think we might see a kind of
uh I guess uh a kind of walking back of
the kind of widespread use of these
systems but I would say that you know
again the the the more important Point
here is that the conversation on AI at
this point was much more about kind of
future speculative uses and the future
and the kind of hype bubble and I think
that um you know this conversation is
really a reminder to bring it back and
say are we are these systems even still
ready for Market this conversation has
happened absolutely on the terms that
companies have set that needs to change
um you know the government needs to take
the the the Front Street is front seat
in kind of driving this conversation
about uh the technology and and what
where it's headed am beak thank you very
much for talking to us today thank
you
