[Music]
hello everyone this video is going to be
an introduction to mutual funds I'm sure
most of you have already heard of the
term mutual funds either in a TV
commercial newspapers or anywhere in
social media and also more than 15% of
people who have some information about
mutual funds are also under the
assumption that it is very easy to make
money by investing in mutual funds in
reality it is not that easy so what are
the key points to remember while
investing in mutual funds we will
provide answers to all such questions
step-by-step in upcoming videos but in
this video let's try to understand what
actually mutual funds are as per
Wikipedia a mutual fund is a
professionally managed investment fund
that pulls money from many investors to
purchase securities let's try to
understand this in simple words we can
think of mutual fund also as money of a
group as a simple example let's assume
you live in a cooperative society or
apartment where the society collects
some funds from everyone living in that
society has maintenance charge every
month let's assume there are around 100
apartments and we collect 100 rupees
from each apartment which will be around
1 lakh rupees per year now this money
may not be returned back to you but it
will be used for the developmental
activities of the society from which
everyone will be benefited for example
celebration of festivals
cleaning of the tanks or even for social
causes so basically the task which was
difficult to accomplish with one
person's income can be easily achieved
with the help of a group of people
the mutual funds also work somewhat in a
similar way so if you want to invest in
mutual funds you will have to approach
something called as the asset management
company or AMC the asset management
company consists of a group of experts
who knows how to manage the money pool
from you and other investors like you by
investing the pooled money on stocks
bond real estate our other securities
when we talk about star stock market
investing alone we have a lot of options
such as large companies medium companies
small companies and also there are
different subcategories like public
sector oil sector cement sector textile
sector agriculture sector etc this is
all very confusing and very risky for
common people to take decisions on
investing the experts in the asset
management companies work continuously
to manage the pooled money with certain
schemes so that all its investors get
the best returns for their investments
the asset management company has a lot
of schemes and each of the scheme has an
expert who is also called as the fund
manager the fund manager is responsible
to manage the funds for a particular
scheme and decides where and how to
invest money collected from the
investors so as to get the best results
and investors will get something called
as units by investing in the mutual
funds his returns will depend on
something called as net asset value nav
of the selected scheme the net asset
value will increase and if it becomes
more than the invested net asset value
all the investors of that scheme will
get positive returns and vice versa is
also possible as a beginner most people
who want to invest in mutual funds
mostly do it by selecting the schemes by
just searching on Google about current
returns of the schemes it is not
necessary that the scheme which is
performing well now will surely perform
better and remain consistent in coming
years as well every asset management
company has so many schemes and every
scheme has different fund managers so
scheme portfolio is also very important
to consider while investing and finally
if you have any confusions for investing
in mutual funds don't hesitate to take
advice of the mutual fund advisers
available in your city
[Music]
