one hot encoding is a way of
representing categorical values in a
numerical way how does it work we create
an array that has as many elements as
the number of categories to represent
the category we have an array that
consists of zero everywhere except the
element that corresponds to this
category in that location the value is
1.
and why not just show them in numbers
because numbers have an ordinal
relationship between them meaning 3 is
greater than 2 and 5 is lower than eight
but categories do not necessarily have
this relationship if Category 3
represents sweater and Category 5
represents genes it does not mean that
genes are greater than sweaters machine
learning models make sense of the data
that is given to them based on
mathematical equations if we provide
categories to a machine learning model
in numbers the model will assume the
relationship between these numbers
represent the relationship between the
categories and that will not be correct
and any other way to represent one HUD
encoding well you can also use dummy
variables dummy variables use an array
of length n minus 1 instead of n when
representing the categories n being the
number of categories it uses an array
that consists completely of zeros to
represent one of the categories
for example if cat is 0 1 and dog is one
zero and the only other category out
there is Turtle it can be represented as
zero zero once you prepare your data you
will need to split it into train test
and validation data sets watch this
video to find out why and how we
separate our data sets into sub data
sets
