after the gigantic battle at Cape
agnomus the Romans were now free to land
on African soil and so they did the
carthaginians chose to focus on
defending the city of Carthage itself so
the Romans immediately took the city of
aspis and were then free to raid and
plunder the countryside they took over
twenty thousand slaves and a ton of
foodie but then some orders arrived from
the Senate send home the booty oh but I
want to stay no Steve not you they mean
the treasure well we are not watching
any more of this filth
so the other console left with the booty
leaving regulus and his forces on their
own and they began advancing towards
Carthage along the way according to the
ancient writer Livi they encountered a
literal dragon now Livy was a Roman
historian so his account may be slightly
exaggerated but this I believe as the
Romans continued to plunder the
carthaginian people flooded into the
city now Not only was it in a major
panic but it was so crowded the people
began to starve Don't Panic everyone
look I know you're all starving but I
still have food for me so you know it's
not all bad
the new idiots wonder why you're
starving oh well it's just more food for
me
things weren't looking good for Carthage
they had to do something to stop the
Romans rampaging throughout their land
so they decided finally it was time to
put an end to it they headed out and set
up on rough hilly terrain overlooking
the Roman camp and they prepared for
battle now while the carthaginians were
the traditional masters of the sea on
land they weren't always the brightest
case in point setting up in this
position overlooking the room in Kemp
was just about the stupidest thing they
could have done why
well there's something you gotta
understand about Carthage the
carthaginian land forces actually
suffered from a multitude of different
issues first of all since the
carthaginians were rich rich rich they
could afford to pay a huge number of
foreign mercenaries to fight for them
these mercenaries actually made up the
vast majority of carthage's forces and
therefore carthage's land armies were a
Melting Pot of many different cultures
this however meant that if a battle
wasn't going their way there could be
loyalty issues man I ain't getting paid
enough for this You the lyrics Slingers
better not be thinking of running away
what did he say I don't know man I don't
speak Phoenician let's get out of here
clearly there were also language issues
the military generals tended to be
carthaginian but they made a lot of
strange decisions for example one of the
most feared assets of the carthaginian
army were the war elephants to a Roman
soldier who had never even seen an
elephant before this was like fist
fighting a literal monster yet the
carthaginians continually kept placing
the elephants in the rear where they
were no use in a similar fashion the
neighboring region of New Media provided
Carthage with the most skilled
cavalrymen in the world but the
carthaginians often chose to fight on
rough uneven terrain where horses and
elephants were less effective and so in
this case when the carthaginians again
chose the rough terrain near the Roman
Camp the Romans easily sent them packing
wow regulus were mere miles from
Carthage you sure are amazing yes Steve
I know
Steve what's the matter we've almost won
I just just wish I could be as great as
you regulus Steve you're amazing I mean
unbelievable I know but I mean like at
War stuff I'm such a noob my tanks
always get blown up I can't even fly an
aircraft straight
tanks aircraft what are you talking
about Steve I'm talking about free to
play online multiplayer combat game and
this video is sponsor War Thunder War
Thunder is the most comprehensive
vehicle combat game ever made don't just
drive the tank become one with the tank
if you can play as more than 2 000
battleships aircraft tanks and
helicopters in Dynamic player versus
player combat with amazing 4K Graphics
each vehicle is incredibly detailed and
modeled down to their individual
components and for history nerds like
you and I the vehicle collection in War
Thunder spans over a hundred years of
military development from the 1920s to
the present day I love the detailed
damage mechanics in War Thunder you ever
think about how the exact angle of shell
hits an armored vehicle affects the
resulting damage War Thunder has every
bullet and shell is simulated with
realistic destruction that's the kind of
thing that gets me up in the morning and
by using my link in the description
below new and existing users can get an
exclusive oversimplified decal to make
their t-50 tank look extra spicy plus
you'll get a huge bonus pack including
premium vehicles and boosters so play
War Thunder now on PC Xbox and
PlayStation and as always by using my
link you'll be supporting my channel so
thank you
now where were we oh yeah invading
Africa getting some booty and sending
the carthaginians packing
everything was looking up for regulus a
Roman Victory seemed like it was only a
matter of time but then regulus realized
something he had been console for almost
a year and his term was coming to an end
he knew that if his successor took over
and he finished the job then he would
get the naked statues not regulus and
there was no way regulus was going to
allow that so he jumped the gun you
there carthaginian boy I want you to
deliver a message to your elders I
Marcus attilius regulus demanded total
and unconditional surrender of Carthage
unconditional surrender jeez at least
lay Siege and starve us all to death
first just deliver the message you punk
he demands your total surrender what
jeez at least like Siege and starve us
all to death first hey that's what I
said well boys this Roman thinks we're
out but we're not out are we boys no
we'll do what we always do in times like
this
hire somebody else to solve our problems
for us Darren bring in the Spartan
regulus is overly harsh demands had had
the unintended effect of reinvigorating
carthaginian resolve they brought in a
mercenary from the famed land of Sparta
named xanthapas to help dig them out of
this situation and we all know what
Spartans are like
all right
xanthapas showed up and immediately took
charge he had a look around and said you
idiots put the elephants in front of the
army so they can smash into the Romans
and stop fighting on rough uneven
terrain find a big flat field so your
Superior Cavalry can do their job and
what's this I hear about you giving a
speech telling everyone they're gonna
die hey I was just telling the people
the truth you're a politician lie to the
people
so xanthapas let out the newly reformed
carthaginian Army to meet regulus in the
battle of the bagadas river the
elephants now in the front smashed into
the Roman lines causing disarray the
Cavalry with total freedom of movement
outflanked the Roman infantry thanks to
this impressive Spartan the battle was a
total carthaginian Victory and xanthipus
for His stunning victory was forced to
flee Carthage because the leadership got
jealous regulus the Roman Consul was
captured during the battle Legend has it
he was brought before the carthaginian
council and they made a proposition well
Reggie not looking so good anymore is it
looks like we beat you pretty bad huh up
yours yeah Punic pansies now now regulus
nobody likes a sore loser do they no how
about this we're gonna send you back to
Rome and you convince the Roman senate
to surrender to to us if you fail though
you gotta come back so we can torture
you to death okay okay you promise I
promise
hey guys whoa regulus we thought you got
captured I did but they sent me back to
convince you to surrender well should we
surrender no Never Surrender give him
hell boys they're at the end of their
rope anyway I gotta go be tortured to
death now what yep part of a deal I made
it's a long story well hey wait regulus
no no it's cool guys I promised regulus
this is ancient times we Massacre entire
populations we chop pets in half you can
break a promise no Tim you never break a
promise that's too far and so regulus
went back to Carthage and was tortured
to death and for keeping his promise he
was immortalized as the leading symbol
of Roman virtue meanwhile after their
defeat in Africa the remaining Roman
survivors still in Africa were still in
Africa and they needed to be rescued so
the Romans sent their Fleet to pick him
up and bring him home they successfully
fended off a carthaginian fleet grabbed
the survivors and made their way to
Sicily a great success but then things
took a turn for the worse uh sir that
cloud looks kind of angry fear not
coward if we Romans can build a war
Fleet from scratch and defeat the
carthaginian Empire at their own game
why then even Mother Nature herself will
crumble before us I laugh in the face of
Mother Nature ha ha see come on guys
laugh at Mother Nature with me
284 ships nearly 80 percent of the Roman
fleet was destroyed as many as a hundred
thousand men drowned in a terrifying Act
of nature never before had Rome lost so
many men in a single incident a hundred
thousand casualties for any other Nation
would be crippling any other Nation
would hastily sue for peace any other
Nation would spend decades trying to
recover but Rome was not just any other
Nation Infamous for its unrelenting
determination in the face of
overwhelming odds Rome said well I guess
we'll just have to build another Fleet
and they did in just three months they
built 220 more ships an astonishing feat
the Romans sent out their brand spanking
new warfleet and
they got caught in another storm this
time a whole nother fleet was lost and
still the Romans did not give up the
carthaginians couldn't believe it their
enemy had just lost hundreds of
thousands of men had two fleets almost
entirely destroyed and they still
wouldn't surrender as one Roman poet put
it the Victor is not Victorious if the
vanquished does not consider himself so
in typical Roman fashion after a short
break they were once again building
another Fleet however for now after all
the disasters at Sea the focus began
shifting back to the land campaign in
Sicily the carthaginians overconfident
from recent successes attempted to
retake pinormous but the Romans
countered the terrifying war elephants
by throwing stuff at them and scaring
them away having stopped the
carthaginian advance the road was now
open to the final carthaginian
stronghold on the island Lily bayam Lily
bayam was an extremely well fortified
City in 250 BC the Romans late Siege the
carthaginian defense however was fierce
and skilled blockade Runners kept the
city supplied progress was so slow that
The Siege would last another nine years
to make matters worse the carthaginians
later sent possibly the greatest
military general of the time a man named
hamalkar barca to the island he engaged
in a skillful campaign of Guerrilla
warfare Behind Enemy Lines and for the
remainder of the war he was a major
thorn in the Roman side for now with the
deadlock Siege at Lily biome and the new
Roman Fleet at sea things seemed to be
at his standstill and the Romans had to
do something to break the deadlock
thankfully the Roman Consul Claudius
Fulcher had an idea he tried to get
things moving by attacking the
carthaginian fleet at tropanna now
before a battle to predict if they would
win it was common for the Romans to look
for signs from the gods this could mean
observing the weather or inspecting some
cow livers you know typical religion
stuff in this case culture reportedly
tried to feed some sacred chickens but
unfortunately for him they wouldn't eat
a caroma a very bad sign well he said if
they won't eat then let them drink
stupid chickens we'll observe the
weather instead Gods Give Me A Sign but
ignore that okay how about this if I can
get this piece of paper into that trash
basket we'll win
okay if I can stand here silently for
five seconds and do nothing will win
butcher chose to ignore the signs from
the gods and in the following battle the
superior carthaginians tore them to
shreds it also didn't help that by now
the Romans had removed the corvus to
stabilize their ships and without their
secret weapon it was a disaster and
pulcher was disgraced to make matters
worse the Victorious carthaginian Fleet
then went on to intercept a Roman Supply
Fleet on its way to Lily bayam as they
approached however they saw the signs of
an incoming storm so they took shelter
the Romans on the other hand said onward
Men set sail we've gotta deliver these
supplies step but sir those clouds don't
you think we ought to have learned our
lesson by now yes Brian we ought to have
but
we haven't another Fleet and 50 000 men
lost in another storm
disaster now at this point there still
really isn't a clear winner sure the
Romans have captured most of Sicily and
cornered the carthaginian land forces at
Lily biome but the continued disasters
at Sea were critically depleting their
resources and without a strong Fleet
Rome could not win meanwhile Hamel
carbarco was still knocking about and
creating even more problems so where do
we go from here how does this war
finally End by now the two sides had
been fighting for 23 years they were
exhausted their money their resources
their strength were all utterly spent
the carthaginians in particular were
eager to see the war end so they could
get back to trading and making money so
after the latest Roman disaster at Sea
they said look there ain't no way in
heck the room Romans can come back again
they can't possibly afford to build
another Fleet they're done that's it
recall the Navy repurpose them as
merchant ships and let's get back to
making some money
assuming the Romans would soon make
peace an anti-war faction within the
government recalled a large portion of
the Navy leaving hamelkar on his own the
victors appeared to be declaring
themselves Victorious meanwhile the
vanquished were getting ready for round
five the Romans built another Fleet this
time heavily relying on patriotic
donations from the upper classes to
afford it and once again they put to see
sir the Romans have built another Fleet
oh for goodness sake Clarence can't you
see I'm busy rolling around in this pile
of money but sir I don't care anymore
Clarence I just don't care the
carthaginian politicians made a fairly
lackluster final effort with a poorly
built Fleet to supply their forces in
Sicily but when the brand new Roman
Fleet caught them at the Battle of the
agates even without their signature
corvus they dealt them the final blow
and that was that 23 years of war
neither side could afford to keep
fighting but the Romans showed that they
intended to anyway the carthaginians had
no choice but to throw in the towel the
war had been long and hard for both
sides but in the end it was Roman
determination that won the fight the
Romans had spent the entire War trying
to find a way to deliver the knockout
blow they learned how to build a fleet
and engage in Naval Combat they
developed ingenious new ways of Waging
War they attempted an invasion of the
carthaginian Heartland and whenever
disaster struck them they always came
back again and again the carthaginians
on the other hand spent the entire War
watching whatever room did and then
figuring out how to respond they were
much more passive and so it's no wonder
then that when both sides were close to
collapse Rome was the one who figured
out how to go that little bit further in
241 BC the carthaginian politicians sent
word to Hamilton Barca that he was on
his own and could choose to make peace
with the Romans if he wished hamelkar
was stunned he felt betrayed by the
politicians some sources say he refused
to even negotiate nevertheless terms had
to be drawn up well hammy I'm glad you
carthaginians have finally come to your
senses and recognized who the true
winner is how many fleets did you lose
okay here are terms do you leave Sicily
to us and return all of our prisoners
you're not allowed to make war against
Syracuse or her allies and you have to
pay us 2 200 talents of silver over the
next 20 years what's a talent of silver
well to put it in perspective in the
year 2022 that'll be worth a round let's
say 40 million US Dollars by carumba
that will us wow we've got a
real smart guy over here yeah that's
kind of the point you Dingus ugh I guess
I have no choice
I accept great oh by the way we changed
our minds you actually have to pay us 3
200 talents of silver over 10 years
thanks for accepting dude see you later
hey
he didn't let me stay on cool the treaty
was extremely punishing and by switching
up the terms at the last minute they
enraged the carthaginians but still one
of the longest and deadliest Wars at the
time was finally over the Romans had won
they achieved their aim of gaining
Sicily and even though it wasn't part of
the peace deal they took advantage of a
weakened Carthage and grabbed Corsica
and Sardinia as well Roman expansion
beyond the Italian Peninsula had just
begun the Romans hoped that now the
carthaginians would forever be under
their thumb unfortunately the harsh
terms they placed on the carthaginians
at the end of the war left a growing
anger one that would come back to haunt
them one day Carthage will have its
revenge that's nice dear I'm serious
woman maybe not in my lifetime but
perhaps in his my beautiful son
you are born into a momentous Destiny
you shall be Rome's greatest enemy
you'll tearom limb from limb you'll burn
their pathetic City into the ground
you'll slaughter their people men women
men children my child you are Vengeance
stop telling our baby he's Vengeance but
he is Barbara he's Vengeance that may be
so someday but for now our son has a
name and you should call him that
instead his name is
foreign
don't forget to play War Thunder Now by
clicking my link in the description
below get a huge bonus pack including
premium Vehicles boosters and more new
and existing users will also get the
very sexy oversimplified decals so you
can destroy your enemies in style
[Music]
foreign
