probably started hearing Beethoven at a
very very early age before I even
remember many other things my father was
a pianist and he would play Beethoven
pieces on the piano at home my mother
would play the Beethoven recordings and
our record player from early on I always
knew about Beethoven it felt to
Beethoven and heard Beethoven I still
think he is the greatest composer that
ever lived to me Beethoven was the most
human composer Mozart to me is almost
godlike because his music is perfect it
ties into itself with no friction with
Beethoven I hear the stops and the
starts in the fits and the the struggles
that he had when he was writing and to
me that makes his music more human
because it's not easy to write that
stuff even if you look at this is the
original scores that he wrote at Enron's
course you see what he gouged out you
know huge sections that he wrote like he
didn't want anybody to see the stupid
stuff he wrote but it's fascinating
because he struggled he had to struggle
the man was deaf when he wrote a lot of
this great music I struggled with
writing my favorite part of writing is
when I have written this night the song
that I wrote part of it is Beethoven's
pathetique he has such a soaring melodic
chorus and it never got used for
anything lyrically and I thought wow
this is this would make a great song so
I gave him credit on the album but it
couldn't pay him because he wasn't
around but this this melody
[Music]
Manette's that's a song right there even
without singers or without lyrics it's a
song
it's a beautiful melody once in a while
I start playing the 6th Symphony just
because I'm in that mood the 6th
Symphony to me is like happy Beethoven a
lot of his symphonic work is very dark
and moody and brooding and malevolent
but the sixth symphony I think he was we
must have been shacked up with somebody
he really liked for a while the that's a
people
well I found out when I was in my 20s
that my father was living in in Vienna
he and my mother had broken up in the
late 50s and he went back to Europe and
I found out that he had married again
and had another son who is my brother so
I had to go and meet him I said I'm
going to Vienna I'm gonna meet my
brother and and meet my father again was
interesting trip well I was always
fascinated with Vienna because it was
the city of Beethoven he lived and
composed in so many places in that city
you can even see it in the architecture
you know you look on some of the
buildings in this is a little angel
playing a violin coming off the balcony
of a building and you don't see that in
other cities the music is inherent in
the architecture that makes the city
even more fascinating to me
but when I wrote the Vienna
viennawaits4u I meant that it's a place
where you closed a circle by going to
Vienna suddenly things started to make
sense in the world for me which is
really what the song was about was a
slowdown
you know look around you and have some
gratitude for the good things in your
life
that's what Vienna represented to me
there's always talent there's always
virtuosity
there's always genius and it's there it
would will occur in humankind but it
will take a place like Vienna to bring
it out that's the city that's the place
to become you know at the top of the
line you know we have Nashville in
America that's Music City USA but in
Europe Music City is p.m. matter of fact
I went out with some friends with my
brother's friends and crazy musicians to
some bar instead of jamming rock and
roll or blues with jazz they work Jimmy
to classical music in the middle of the
night 3 o'clock in the morning all of a
sudden boom a string ensemble brings
their violence where do you see that you
see the Vienna that's where that's kind
of stuff goes on fantastic
[Music]
you
