on December 18 1958 America launched a
rocket that broadcasted a Christmas
message from space
the message was recorded by Dwight D
Eisenhower who was the president of the
United States at the time
the mission was considered a great
success
as it launched the first ever
communication satellite into orbit and
laid the foundation for what is now an
essential multi-billion dollar industry
today
the communication satellite used to
broadcast the Christmas message came to
be known as the talking Atlas as it was
launched aboard an atlas rocket
a rocket is exactly what you think it is
a long thin metallic cylinder with a
pointed nose that shoots up from the
ground leaving a gigantic cloud of smoke
in its wake however there is more to it
than that there are a number of other
things that make rocket both functional
and useful
the word rocket can mean different
things in different contexts simply put
a rocket is a spacecraft missile
aircraft or other vehicle that obtains
thrust from a rocket engine
from the outside the frame of a rocket
is very similar to that of an airplane
it's made of various light but very
strong materials like aluminum and
titanium
skin of the rocket is covered with a
thermal protection system that protects
the rocket from extreme heat caused by
air friction and helps maintain cold
temperatures that are needed for certain
fuels and oxidizers within the rocket
the body of a rocket is composed of
different sections all of which are
housed within the frame of the rocket
the first component is the payload
system of the rocket for the uninitiated
the payload is the Rocket's carrying
capacity
the payload depends on the type of
mission the rocket is being used for it
can consist of cargo a satellite a space
probe and even a spacecraft carrying
humans so if you want to send humans to
space the payload of your rocket will
contain a spacecraft whereas if you're
using the rocket as a weapon then the
payload would consist of a missile
next is the guidance system the system
which ensures that the rocket stays on
its intended trajectory and goes where
it's supposed to go
the guidance system consists of on-board
computers and sophisticated sensors as
well as radar and communication systems
to maneuver the rocket while in flight
[Music]
last is the propulsion system
a majority of the entire length of a
modern rocket is actually made up of the
propulsion system
as the name suggests the propulsion
system consists of the components that
help launch the rocket off the ground
and subsequently Propel the rocket in a
given Direction
so how is this huge enormously heavy
cylindrical metallic tube shot into
space
in order to get into space the rocket
must first cross the thick layers of
atmosphere that envelop our planet
once the atmosphere is thickest near the
ground the rocket has to go extremely
fast in order to get past this part of
the atmosphere so how does it climb so
fast in the air
the answer to this question lies in one
of the most popular physical laws of the
universe Newton's third law of motion
according to the third law every action
has an equal and opposite reaction in
our case we have a rocket that we want
to launch into space how does the third
law help us
that's where the rocket engine comes
into play
a rocket engine works by burning either
a liquid or solid fuel in the presence
of an oxidizer when the combustion
reaction occurs it throws out a great
deal of mass as a byproduct of the
reaction
these byproducts are released at great
speed through the bell-shaped nozzles
that you see at the bottom of rockets
the rocket pushes the exhaust down the
exhaust responds by pushing the rocket
up at Great speeds which lifts the
rocket off the launching pad and propels
it upwards into space
in a way you could say that a rocket
shoots upward by throwing hot gases from
its exhaust nozzles below
if you have ever seen a rocket launch in
person or even seen a rocket launch
video on the internet beyond the liftoff
phase you may have noticed that a rocket
doesn't maintain a straight trajectory
all the way up
it lifts off perfectly vertically but at
around the one minute Mark of the flight
it starts turning and going laterally
that is a flight maneuver known as the
gravity turn
it's a trajectory optimization technique
that's always employed while launching
Rockets because it offers two benefits
first it uses gravity to steer the
rocket onto its desired trajectory which
helps to save rocket fuel
second it helps to minimize aerodynamic
stress on the launch vehicle
if a rocket continued going up without
tilting at all it would reach a point
where it would run out of fuel
that's why it tilts slightly after
lifting off straight up thanks to the
exhaust analysis of the rocket which can
be swiveled from side to side in order
to alter the direction of the thrust
once a rocket lifts off parts of it are
sequentially separated or jettisoned and
pre-defined intervals for instance if a
spacecraft is being launched with a
rocket then its rocket boosters are
separated first followed by the external
tank
these separated Parts Blast Off from the
spacecraft and splashed down in the
Atlantic Ocean where they can be
retrieved
[Music]
the spacecraft then Maneuvers on its own
using its main engines to reach the
desired orbit similarly if an unmanned
satellite is launched on a rocket the
sole purpose of the rocket is to get the
satellite into its intended orbit
once there the satellite stays in the
orbit and does a small amount of
maneuvering using its own engines
all in all Rockets are used only to get
stuff into space period once a rocket
has done its job it's separated in parts
from the stuff that it carries as it's
no longer considered an operation
requirement of the mission
space agencies all over the world have
been sending men and material into space
for decades now as such it's only fair
to say that we wouldn't have been able
to understand and explore space nearly
as much as we have if not for those tall
cylindrical metallic tubes that shoot up
from the ground in a bid to expand Man's
Reach Beyond this planet
foreign
