2
15 10 9 8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1
[Applause]
the Ping
[Applause]
down CH
pressure
we are t plus 40 seconds into the flight
of Starship 33 Raptor
engin power and Telemetry nominal we've
heard power and Telemetry nominal call
out we're heading down range over the go
Mexico
and that call out tells us Starship is
through the period of greatest stress on
the way to
space now the next major event is hot
staging in just over 90 seconds from now
to get ready the booster will shut down
all but three of the Raptor engines
clams holding the two stages together
will release and the Starship second
stage will ignite its engines Starship
will then separate from the super heavy
booster in head to space and at the same
time the three engines that are still
firing on super heavy will flip the
booster around 10 more engines will
ignite for the Boost back burn putting
the first stage on path for a splash
down in the Gulf of
Mexico
engine power continues the look nominal
on 33 Raptor engines we're about to shut
down the first stage and perform staging
let's watch and
listen
and acquisition of H signal Houston and
New
Orleans booster engine cut
off stage separation
[Applause]
start
you're here the cheering the first ever
successful hot stage for Space X
Sport incredible views of our super
heavy
booster and as you can see the super
heavy booster has just experienced a
rapid unscheduled disassembly L however
our ship is still underway with all
power andry nominal and we just heard
there ship avionics power and Telemetry
nominal all six engines are lit as you
can see from the gooey there at the
bottom right hand side of your
screen now we did know that the uh that
hot staging was going to be incredibly
Dynamic we knew that there was a chance
that the booster would not survive but
we're going to take that data and figure
out how we can make the booster better
for the next hot
stage yeah that hot staging put a lot of
load on the top of the booster and of
course it flipped around there a lot of
dynamic stuff
happening but ship is still going strong
and it's doing great right now the ship
the second stage is uh on its way like
we said you can see all six of its
engines are
ignited the next major milestone for the
ship
uh will be the shutdown of those engines
or seeo second engine cut off which if
you follow our Falcon 9 launches
familiar terminology there so far today
has been incredibly successful even with
the rud of the super heavy booster this
is
amazing primary objective of the booster
today to get to Hot staging to get ship
on its way to orbit it did that
admirably
yeah we definitely as St sh trajectory
nominal all right great news there that
traj trajectory for ship canal once
again Starship second stage it's firing
those engines and as you just heard
everything's looking good now for the
ship we uh wanted it to survive hot
staging which as you can see there by
that little dot on your screen it did uh
we also want to uh basically demonstrate
that the successful startup of that uh
of those engines demonstrating
controlled Ascent which is what it's
doing right now um and eventually
orbital insertion uh we are hoping to
basically send this around the earth and
if it makes it this far splash down in
the Pacific Ocean um a couple hundred
miles north of
Hawaii now if we get that far like all
of that sounds great secondary
objectives for ship again continuing to
gather engine data and about its Health
performance chamber pressures great news
there that tells us that the chamber
pressures inside of the Starship again
that's that small dot on your screen the
basically the propellant um pressures in
the ship are looking
good yeah the bottom right corner of
your screen you can see uh essentially a
user interface showing us which engines
are lit so the three Center sea level
Raptor engines on ship are gimblin
the three outer engin in the Triangle
the larger ones are Raptor vacuum
engines all of them continuing to file
fire nominally so they're at the
pressures that we expect to try to get
uh into our Target trajectory today yeah
and we're not targeting orbit today
we're targeting almost orbit today um
that's very intentional as part of the
mission design the goal is to get to a
Thrust profile similar to what we would
need for orbit but to
theels that the ship to dissipate for
re-entry and so actually going in a
suborbital trajectory today but that
trajectory will get us to the energy
levels that we need at re-entry where we
can really stress that heat shield and
get valuable data on re-entry and those
calls that we are still on a nominal
trajectory here and seeing nominal
pressures means that we have a really
good shot of hitting our Target orbit
yeah now if the booster had survived uh
we would be uh around the time where it
would be uh getting ready to land
performing its uh re-entry but it
unfortunately did not
survive uh that being said that's okay
it survived several seconds after uh hot
staging so we're going to take that data
and improve the hot staging sequence and
and probably improve the hardware itself
uh for the next
f
