this episode is sponsored by Squarespace
I used Squarespace to build both Basics
with Bish and bingingwithbabish tocom on
the sites you'll find recipes equipment
lists other news and updates all
beautifully designed if I do say so
myself get 10% off your first
Squarespace order by visiting
squarespace.com
babish
hello there welcome back to an episode
of anime with Alvin now this is a
special episode because we have a
special guest today she just came out
with her cookbook called make a Japanese
she is one of my closest friends and she
is one of the most talented and funniest
people I've ever met her name is R we've
been co-workers and friends for many
many many years and gone through of Many
Many Adventures Together both in the
culinary and video world you might have
seen her on YouTube making a lot of
Japanese foods and I'm honored to have
her in the studio today her cookbook is
filled with beautiful simple and
Delicious Japanese recipes and one of
them happens to be melon pun and
confectionary from Japan that is
essentially a soft milk bread bun with a
crackling cookie like topping it doesn't
tastes like melon at all but I think the
word comes from the fact that it kind of
looks like a melon because of the
crackled top so we're going to go ahead
and make that today and melon Pond is
definitely something commonly found in
anime so I thought this would be a great
opportunity to make this melon Pond
together with none another than the
expert herself we're going to be using
the recipe directly from her cookbook
today so I will be playing more of an
assistant role in a little measuring cup
we have 120 ml of a whole milk which I'm
going to be assigned to microwave until
the milk is about 115° it should feel
hotter than a hot shower if you were to
dip your hand into it then we're going
to add half a tablespoon of granulated
sugar and 1 teaspoon of active dry yeast
into the milk give that a nice stir and
set aside until it becomes foamy which
is about 10 minutes or so now for the
dry ingredients in a large bowl we're
combining two cups of allpurpose flour
one large egg which has been whisked and
the other half tablespoon of granulated
sugar now we're going to pour over that
nice yeast mixture and mix until it is
combined once this has become a Shaggy
dough R is going to handle work in the
dough while I assist with some bench
flour sprinkling it in as necessary you
showing me how to knead this dough back
and forth using a heart technique where
you push it left then you push it right
slowly kneading the dough and not giving
it too much work I have now been
delegated the role of sleeve puller as
re tends to have her long sleeves kind
of bunch up after she rolls for a while
it is now my one and only duty to make
sure that their sleeves are pulled up
Once the dough is starting to look good
we're going to slowly add in butter this
is about a tablespoon of butter cut into
little cubes in room temperature so that
they can be kneaded into the dough I'm
slowly pressing in one tiny cube of
butter at ru's instructions while she
continues to KNE the dough together
usually this kind of dough I would
expect to be made in a stand mixer but R
says that you can definitely do this by
hand if you don't have a stand mixer at
home and I respect the fact that she's
doing this manually because it is a lot
of work but with the power of teamwork
and after about 10 or so minutes of
kneading this dough together by ham the
butter has incorporated beautifully and
now we have a nice beautiful round shiny
sticky ball of dough R is now allowing
me to take a crack at this dough rolling
it back and forth and I'm just shocked
at how smooth and soft and supple this
dough is for being a handroll dough I
guess her recipes are just that good now
re showing me a nice little Acorn
rolling technique to get this dough into
a nice little ball shape without having
to stretch and push the dough underneath
as usual bread Do's recipes call for
look at that nice little dough baby show
that to the camera R oh that's yeah that
oh yeah there it is this dough is going
into a oiled bowl and let to rest and
proof for about 1 hour covered in
plastic wrap to make sure that none of
the other stuff in the air gets in while
the dough proofs we're going to go ahead
and make the cookie topping this is
probably the most signature part of what
makes melon Pon melon Pon for this
cookie dough mixture we're going to
whisk together 2 tbspoon of room
temperature butter with 2 tbspoon of
granulated sugar until it is is nice and
a little air then we're going to add one
large egg whisked and added in two
additions so that the egg has in time to
incorporate if you add in all at once re
say that it can kind of get lumpy and
that's not what you want then we're
going to sift in 2/3 cup of allpurpose
flour and 1/4 cup of almond flour mix
that until now we have a nice little
cookie dough paste cooking with Rea side
by side in front of the camera is
honestly giving me flashbacks to the
years we had together just making videos
and making food together and honestly
it's a good feeling to have again then
as per R's instructions we're going to
take this mixture and press it between
two pieces of Saran Wrap or one large
folded pieces of Saran Wrap until it is
nice and thin and somewhat in a
rectangular shape once after using a
rolling pin and rolling this out to a
thin and even layer about 1/4 of an inch
thick this is going to go onto a tray
and go into the fridge to harden and chw
now that our dough has been resting for
about 1 hour or so it is now my duty to
punch this dough Down Bam now we're
going to take this dough out and divide
it evenly because now it is a two-person
game the is going to take half the dough
and I'm going to take half of the dough
but the difference is that I'm going to
be taking all my dough and making one
large melon pun where she's going to
make four normal sized ones said that
the goal here is to take the dough and
sort of shimmy it into a small and
smooth ball not overworking it too much
and not stretching the gluten too much
either more like coaxing the dough into
a small smooth ball once her four little
buns are ready and once my large bun is
ready we're going to go ahead and work
with the cookie dough again she's going
to take half I'm going to take the other
half we're going to try and make a
rectangular Square patch that is evenly
going to coat the top of our buns re
says that using parchment paper to sort
of press this down is kind of a fail
safe way to do this because then you can
just peel the parchment paper off on the
bun almost pressing the dough as a nice
little hat over the top once the cookie
dough has been plastered on top of our
buns we're going to take a little plate
of turbinado sugar and invert our bun so
that the cookie dough topping gets to
have a nice helpful pressing of that
turbinado sugar let's see if I can get
it with Mar llarge bun oh hey that
doesn't look too bad at all to create
that signature powder seen on melon Pond
R is using a knife to kind of score the
top a little bit it not cutting into the
dough itself just more like creating a
pattern in the top of the cookie dough
sugar area when the Buns proof and bake
and expand this is going to create a
beautiful crackly pattern on the top of
the bun that gives the melon ponded
signature look after she's done making
her patterns on hers I'm going to go
ahead and make a diamond patter on mine
using a knife and not really cutting
into it but more like rolling the knife
from blade to tip over the top of the
bun creating a nice little INB pattern
re seems to like what I've done with
mine I do too it looks pretty cool oh my
my God it's better than mine now our
buns are going to go on a separate tray
to make sure that they can prove for
another 45 minutes to an hour until they
are ready to bake R is proud of the
approach that I've taken I will say it
does feel good to be validated by
someone who's Japanese when I'm making a
Japanese recipe for the first time once
they have grown probably about 25 to 30%
more they're going to go directly into
the oven we're going to put both batchet
of buns in the oven at 350° but because
hers are smaller hers are going to come
out earlier hers took about 15 minutes
which mine took about 20 to 25 re recipe
takes the buns out when they're slightly
Goen but I wanted to see how much I
could Brown the top of my cookie topping
so I left mine in at a convection bake
for about 5 extra minutes more than it
should have just to see if we can get it
extra crispy I will say both of ours
look pretty good we're going to go ahead
and start with re buns first what a
beautiful pattern on top it does kind of
resemble a melon or a pineapple or a
Concha tear these open look how soft
these things are I'm so pumped with
excitement at the prospect of eating
these directly from the oven oh yeah
show the camera oh yep yeah Closer
Closer there we go Reay has now made
this bread talk to the camera let's give
this a taste there's really nothing
quite like the taste of freshly baked
buns out of the oven they're warm
they're fluffy the bun is not so sweet
but the cookie topping adds a nice
sweetness and a slight little crunch
that makes the bun all worth it super
super super delicious demolish these in
like 5 Seconds yes this is a bun worth
dancing for a happy dance okay now for
the one that's slightly overbaked and
little crispy these are the size of our
hands for reference there we go this is
mine I kind of went for a diamond
pattern because I thought it kind of
resembled more of what I saw at the
7-Eleven in Japan I'm quite happy to say
that it look kind of close although
theirs is a lot cheaper I'm guessing it
was like a dollar when I went it was so
good and so cheap I ate like one every
day okay enough rambling let's tear this
open oh wow look at that steam oh yep
looks like uh looks like R wants to play
bumper cars with my melon pun but you
can clearly see the distinction between
the bun and the cookie topping on this
one it's also cool that you can kind of
break these by its Diamond patterns and
it tells you how to eat the bun because
I baked mine for a little bit longer the
cookie dough topping was a lot more
crunchy in this one which gives a more
separate distinction from the one that R
made always always makes things better
than different thank you R for coming by
and thank you for creating such a
beautiful book for all of us to
enjoy thanks again to Squarespace for
sponsoring today's episode they've been
a great partner in supporting The babish
Culinary universe and bringing my
websites to life from websites tol
online stores to domains and analytics
Squarespace is the all-in-one platform
for you to build your online presence
they also have SEO tools so that your
site is getting found and searched by
more people more often if you want to
try it for yourself you can start your
free trial today by visiting
squarespace.com / babish to get 10% off
your first
[Music]
purchase
[Music]
