good morning thank you for joining us
today please welcome to the stage Sam
[Music]
Alman good morning Welcome to our first
ever open AI Dev day we're thrilled that
you're here and this energy is
awesome and welcome to San Francisco
San Francisco has been our home since
day one the city is important to us and
to the tech industry in general we're
looking forward to continuing to grow
here so we've got some great stuff to
announce today but first I'd like to
take a minute to talk about some of the
stuff that we've done over the past year
about a year ago November 30th we
shipped chat GPT as a low-key research
preview and that went pretty
well in March we follow that up with the
launch of GPT 4 still the most capable
model out in the
world and in the last few months we
launched voice and vision capabilities
so that chat GPT can now see hear and
speak and more Rec there's a lot you
don't have to clap each time and and
more recently we launched Dolly 3 the
world's most advanced image model you
can use it of course inside of chat
GPT for our Enterprise customers we
launch chat GPT Enterprise which offers
Enterprise grad security and privacy
higher speed gp4 access longer context
Windows a lot
more today we've got about 2 million
developers building on our API for a
wide variety of use cases doing amazing
stuff over 92% of Fortune 500 companies
building on our
products and we have about a 100 million
weekly active users now on on chat
gbt and what's incredible on that is we
got there entirely through Word of Mouth
people just find it useful and tell
their friends open AI is the most
advanced and the most widely used AI
platform in the world
now but numbers never tell the whole
picture on something like this what's
really important is how people use the
products how people are using Ai and so
I'd like to show you a quick
video I actually wanted to write
something to my dad in talo I want a
non-romantic way to tell my parent that
I love him and I also want to tell him
that he can rely on me but in a way that
still has the respect of like a childt
parent relationship that you should have
in topino culture and in tala Grandma
when it's translated into tal I love you
very deeply and I will be with you no
matter where the path leads I see
somebody posib like w sometime I'm not
sure about some stuff and I feel like
actually like hey this what I'm thinking
about so it kind of give me that more
confidence the first thing that just
blew my mind was it levels with you like
that's something that a lot of people
struggle to do it opened my mind to just
what every creative could do if they
just had a person helping them out who
lers so this is a to represent sickling
hemoglobin and you built that with Chad
GPT Chad G PT built it with me I started
using it for daily activities like hey
here's a picture of my fridge can you
tell me what I'm missing cuz I'm going
grocery shopping and I really need to do
recipes that are following My Vegan Diet
as soon as uh we got access to code
interpreter I was like wow this thing is
awesome they can build spreadsheets it
could do anything I discovered catty
about 3 months ago on my 100th birthday
caddy is very friendly very patient very
knowledgeable and very quick it's been a
wonderful thing I'm a 4.0 student but I
also have four children when I started
using chat GPT I realized I could ask
chat GPT that question and not only does
it give me an answer but it gives me an
explanation didn't need tutoring as much
it gave me a life back it gave me time
for my family and time for me I have
chronic nerve pain uh on my whole left
half of my body of nerve damage uh had
like a spine a brain surgery and so I
have like limited use of my left hand
now you can just have like the
integration of voice input and then the
newest one where you can have the back
and forth dialogue that's just like
maximum best interface for me it's
[Music]
[Applause]
here so we we love hearing the stories
of of how people are using the
technology it's really why we do all of
this okay so now on to the new stuff and
we have got a
lot first we're going to talk about a
bunch of improvements we've made and
then we'll talk about where we're headed
next over the last year we spent a lot
of time talking to developers around the
world we've heard a lot of your feedback
it's really informed what we have to
show you
today today we are launching a new
model gp4
[Applause]
turbo gp4 Turbo will address many of the
things that you all have asked for so
let's go through what's new we've got
six major things to talk about for this
part number one context length a lot of
people have tasks that require a much
longer context length gp4 supported up
to 8K and in some cases up to 32k
context length but we know that isn't
enough for many of you and what you want
to do gp4 turbo supports up to 128,000
tokens of
context that's 300 pages of a standard
book 16 times longer than our 8K context
and in addition to longer context length
you'll notice that the model is much
more accurate over a long
context number two
more
control we've heard loud and clear that
developers need more control over the
model's responses and outputs so we've
addressed that in a number of
ways we have a new feature called Json
mode which ensures that the model will
respond with valid Json this has been a
huge developer request it'll make
calling apis much
easier the model is also much better at
function calling you can now call many
functions at once and it'll do better at
following instruction instructions in
general we're also introducing a new
feature called reproducible outputs you
can pass a seed parameter and it'll make
the model return consistent outputs this
of course gives you a higher degree of
control over Model Behavior this rolls
out in beta
today and in the coming weeks we'll roll
out a feature to let you view log probs
in the
API all right number three Better World
Knowledge you want these models to be
able to access better knowledge about
the world so do
we so we're launching retrieval in the
platform you can bring Knowledge from
outside documents or databases into
whatever you're
building we're also updating the
knowledge cut off we are just as annoyed
as all of you probably more that gbd
for's knowledge about the world ended in
2021 we will try to never let it get
that out of date again gp4 turbo has
knowledge about the world up to April of
2023 and we will continue to improve
that over
time number four new
modalities surprising no one Dolly 3 gp4
Turbo with vision and the new text to
speech model are all going into the API
today we have a handful of customers
that have just started using Dolly 3 to
program programmatically generate images
and Designs today K is launching a
campaign that lets his customers
generate devali cards using dolly3 and
of course our safety systems help
developers protect their applications
against misuse those tools are available
in the
API gp4 turbo can now accept images as
inputs via the API can generate captions
classifications and Analysis for example
B my eyes uses this technology to help
people who are blind or have low vision
with their daily tasks like identifying
products in front of
them and with our new text of speech
model you'll be able to generate
incredibly naturally natural sounding
audio from text in the API with six
preset voices to choose from I'll play
an
example did you know that Alexander
Graham Bell the eminent inventor was
enchanted by the world of sounds his
ingenious mind led to the creation of
the graphophone which etched sounds onto
wax making voices whisper Through Time
this is much more natural than anything
else we've heard out there voice can
make apps more natural to interact with
and more accessible it also unlocks a
lot of use cases like language learning
and voice
assistance speaking of new
modalities we're also releasing the next
version of our open-source speech
recognition model whisper V3 today and
it'll be coming soon to the API it
features improved performance across
many languages and we think you're
really going to like
it okay number number five
customization fine-tuning has been
working really well for GPT 3.5 since we
launched it a few months ago starting
today we're going to expand that to the
16k version of the model also starting
today we're inviting active fine-tuning
users to apply for the gp4 fine-tuning
experimental Access program the
fine-tuning API is great for adapting
our models to achieve better performance
in a wide variety of applications with a
relatively small amount of data
but you may want a model to learn a
completely new knowledge domain or to
use a lot of proprietary data so today
we're launching a new program called
custom
models with custom models our
researchers will work closely with a
company to help them make a great custom
model especially for them and their use
case using our tools this includes
modifying every step of the model
training process doing additional domain
specific pre-training a custom RL
post-training process for a specific
domain and whatever else we won't be
able to do this with many companies to
start it'll take a lot of work and in
the interest of expectations at least
initially it won't be cheap but if
you're excited to push things as far as
they can currently go please get in
touch with us and we think we can do
something pretty
great okay and then number six higher
rate limits we're doubling the tokens
per minute for all of our established
gp4 customers so that it's easier to do
more and you'll be able to request
changes to further rate limits and
quotas directly in your API account
settings in addition to these rate
limits it's important to do everything
we can do to make it you successful
building on our
platform so we're introducing copyright
Shield copyright Shield means that we
will step in and defend our customers
and pay the costs incurred if you face
legal claims around copyright
infringement and this applies both to
chat GPT Enterprise and the
API and let me be clear this this is a
good time to remind people we do not
train on data from the API or chat gbt
Enterprise
ever all
right there's actually one more
developer request that's been even
bigger than all of these uh and so I'd
like to talk about that
now and that's
pricing gp4 turbo is the industry
leading model it delivers a lot of
improvements that we just covered and
it's a smarter model than
gp4 we've heard from developers that
there are a lot of things that they want
to build but gp4 just cost too much
they've told us that if we could
decrease the cost by 20 25% that would
be great a huge leap
forward I'm super excited to announce
that we worked really hard on this and
gp4 turbo a better model is considerably
cheaper than
gp4 by a factor of 3x for prompt tokens
and 2x for completion tokens starting
today so the new pricing is 1 cent per
th000 prompt tokens and 3 cents per
thousand completion tokens for most
customers that will lead to a blended
rate more than 2.75 times cheaper to use
for gp4 Turbo than gp4 we worked super
hard to make this happen we hope you're
excited about as we
are so we decided to prioritize price
first because we had to choose one or
the other but we're going to work on
speed next we know that speed is
important too soon you will notice gp4
turbo becoming a lot
faster we're also decreasing the cost of
GPT 3.5 turbo
16k also input tokens are 3x less and
output tokens are 2x less which means
the GPT
3.56k is now cheaper than the previous
GPT 3.5 4K
model running a fine tuned GPT 3.5 turbo
16k version is also cheaper than the old
fine-tuned 4K
version okay so we just covered a lot
about the model itself we hope that
these changes address your feedback
we're really excited to bring all of
these improvements to everybody
now in all of this we're lucky to have a
partner who is instrumental in making
happen so I'd like to bring out a
special guest Saia Nadella the CEO of
[Applause]
[Music]
Microsoft welcome good to see you thank
you so much thank you SAA thanks so much
for coming here it's fantastic to be
here and uh Sam congrats I mean I'm
really looking forward to tobo and
everything else that you have coming
it's been just fantastic partnering with
you guys um two questions won't take too
much of your time how are how is
Microsoft thinking about the partnership
sh currently look
first we love you
guys now look it's it's it's been
fantastic for us in fact I remember the
first time I think you reached out and
said hey do you have some Azure credits
we've come a long way from there uh
thank you for those that was great you
you guys have built something magical I
mean quite frankly there are two things
uh for us when it comes to the
partnership the first is these workloads
and even when I was listening backstage
to how you're describing what's coming
even it's just so different and new I've
been in this infrastructure business for
you know three decades no one has ever
seen infrastructure like yeah and and
the workload and the pattern of the
workload these you know these training
jobs are so synchronous and so large and
so data parallel um and so the first
thing that we have been doing is
building in partnership with you the
system all the way from thinking from
power to the DC to the rack to the
accelerators to the network uh and just
you know really the the shape of of
azure is drastically changed uh and is
changing rapidly in support of these
models that you're building and so our
job number one is to build the best
systems so that you can build the best
models and then make that all available
to developers and so the other thing is
we ourselves are a developers so we're
building products in fact my own
conviction of this entire generation of
foundation models completely changed the
first time I saw you know get up
co-pilot on uh GPT um and so we want to
build our co-pilot GitHub co-pilot all
as developers uh on top of open Ai apis
and so we are very very committed to
that and what does that mean to
developers you know look I I always
think of Microsoft as a platform company
a developer company and a partner
company and so we want to make you know
for example we want to make GitHub
available GitHub co-pilot available as
the Enterprise Edition available to all
the attendees here so that they can try
it out that's awesome yeah we're very
excited about
that
and you can count on us to build the
best infrastructure in Azure with your
API support uh and bring it to all of
you and then even things like the Azure
Marketplace so for developers who are
building products out here to get to the
market uh rapidly so that's sort of
really our intent here great and how do
you think about the future future of the
partnership or future of AI or whatever
yeah
there anything you want that's a uh you
know like there are couple of things for
that I think are going to be very very
key for us right one is I just described
how the systems that are needed as you
aggressively push forward on your road
map um requires us to be on the top of
our game and we intend fully to commit
ourselves deeply to making sure you all
as Builders of these Foundation models
have not only the best systems uh for
training and inference but the most
compute so that you can keep pushing we
appreciate that forward uh on the
Frontiers because I think that that's
the way we're going to make progress the
second thing I think both of us care
about in fact quite frankly the thing
that excited both sides to come together
is your mission and our mission our
mission is to empower every person and
every organization on the planet to
achieve more and to me ultimately AI is
only going to be useful if it truly does
empower right I mean I saw the video you
played early I mean that was fantastic
to see those hear those voices describe
what AI meant for them and what they
were able to achieve so ultimately it's
about being able to get the benefits of
AI broadly decimated to everyone I think
is going to be the goal for us and then
the last thing is of course we're very
grounded in the fact that safety matters
and safety is not something that you'd
care about later but it's something we
do shift left on and we are very very
focused on that with you all great well
I think we have the best partnership in
Tech I'm excited for us to build AGI
together no I'm really excited have a
fantastic thank you very much thank you
so much see
[Applause]
you
okay so we have shared a lot of great
updates for developers already and we
got a lot more to come but even though
this is a developer conference we can't
resist making some improvements to chat
GPT so a small one chat GPT now uses gp4
Turbo with all the latest improvements
including the latest knowledge cut off
which will continue update that's all
live today it can now browse the web
when it needs to write and run code
analyze data take and generate images
and much more and we heard your feedback
that model picker extremely annoying
that is gone starting today you will not
have to click around the drop down menu
all of this will just work together chat
GPT
yeah chat GPT will just know what to use
and when you need
it but that's not the main
thing uh and neither was price actually
the main developer request that there
was one that was even bigger than that
and I want to talk about where we're
headed and the main thing we're here to
talk about today so we believe that if
you give people better tools they will
do amazing things we know that people
want AI that is smarter more personal
more customizable can do more on your
behalf eventually you'll just ask a
computer for what you need and it'll do
all of these tasks for you these
capabilities are often talked in the AI
field about as agents
the upsides of this are going to be
tremendous at open AI we really believe
that gradual iterative deployment is the
best way to address the safety issues
the safety challenges with AI we think
it's especially important to move
carefully towards this future of Agents
it's going to require a lot of technical
work and a lot of thoughtful
consideration by
Society So today we're taking our first
small step that moves us towards this
future we're thrilled to uh we're
thrilled to
introduce
gpts gpts are tailored versions of chat
GPT for a specific purpose you can build
a GPT a customized version of chat GPT
for almost anything with instructions
expanded knowledge and actions and then
you can publish it for others to
use and because they combine
instructions expanded knowledge and
actions they can be more helpful to you
they can work better in many contexts
and they can give you better
control they'll make it easier for you
to accomplish all sorts of tasks or just
have more fun and you'll be able to use
them right within chat
GPT you can in effect program a GPT with
language just by talking to it it's easy
to customize the behavior so that it
fits what you want this makes building
them very accessible and it gives agency
to
everyone so we're going to show you what
gpts are how to use them how to build
them and then we're going to talk about
how they'll be distributed and
discovered and then after that for
developers we're going to show you how
to build these agent like experiences
into your own apps so first let's look
at a few
examples our partners at code.org are
working hard to expand computer science
in in schools they've got a curriculum
that is used by tens of millions of
students worldwide code.org crafted
lesson planner GPT to help teachers
provide a more engaging experience for
middle
schoolers if a teacher asks it to
explain for Loops in a creative way it
does just that in this case it'll do it
in terms of a video game character
repeatedly picking up coins super easy
to understand for an eighth
grader as you can see this GPT brings
together code.org extensive curriculum
and expertise and lets teachers adapt it
to their needs quickly and
easily next canva has built a GPT that
lets you start designing by describing
what you want in natural language if you
say make a poster for Dev a Dev day
reception this afternoon this evening
and you give it some
details it'll generate a few options to
start with by hitting canvas apis now
this concept may be familiar to some of
you we've evolved our plugins to be
custom actions for
gpts you can keep chatting with this to
see different iterations and when you
see one you like you can click through
to canva for the full design
experience so now we'd like to show you
a GPT
live capier has built a GPT that that
lets you perform actions across 6,000
applications to unlock all kinds of
integration possibilities I'd like to
introduce Jessica one of our Solutions
architects who is going to drive this
demo welcome
Jessica thank you s h
everyone thank you
all thank you all for being here my name
is Jessica I work with partners and
customers to bring their product alive
and today I I can't wait to show you you
how hard we've been working on this so
let's get started so to start where your
gbt will live is on this upper left
corner I'm going to start with clicking
on the zapier AI actions and on the
right hand side you can see that's my
calendar for today so it's quite a day
I've already used this before so it's
actually already connected to my
calendar to start I can ask what's on my
schedule for today we build gpts with
security in mind so before a forms any
action or share data it will ask for
your permission so right here I'm going
to say allowed so gbt is designed to
take in your instructions make the
decision on which capability to call to
perform that action and then execute
that for you so you can see right here
it's already connected to my calendar it
pulls into my my information and then
I've also prompted it to identify
conflicts on my calendar so you can see
right here it actually was able to
identify that so it looks like I have
something coming up so what if I want to
let Sam know that I have to leave early
so right here I say Let Sam no I got to
go um chasing
gpus so with that I'm GNA swap to my
conversation with Sam and then I'm going
to say yes please run
that Sam did you get that I
did
awesome
so this is only a glimpse of what is
possible and I cannot wait to see what
you all will build thank you and back to
you
Sam thank thank you Jessica so those are
three great examples in addition to
these there are many more kinds of gpts
that people are creating and many many
more that will be created
soon we know that many people who want
to build the GPT don't know how to
code we've made it so that you can
program the GPT just by having a
conversation we believe that natural
language is going to be a big part of
how people use computers in the future
and we think this is an interesting
early example so I'd like to show you
how to build
one all right so I want to create a GPT
uh that helps give Founders and
developers advice when starting new
projects
um I'm going to go to create a GPT here
and this drops me into the GPT Builder
uh I worked with Founders for years at
YC and still whenever I meet developers
the questions I get are always about how
do I you know think about a business
idea can you give me some advice uh I'm
going to see if I can build a GPT to
help with that so to start GPT Builder
asks me what I want to make and I'm
going to say I want to help help startup
Founders think through their business
ideas and get advice after the founder
has gotten some
advice uh Grill
them on why they are not growing
faster all right so to start off I just
tell the GPT a little bit about about
what I want here and it's going to go
off and start thinking about that
and it's going to write some detailed
instructions for the GPT um it's also
going to let's see ask me about a name
how do I feel about startup Mentor
that's fine uh that's good so if I
didn't like the name of course I could
call it something else but it's you know
going to try to have this conversation
with me and start there and you can see
here on uh on on the right in the
preview mode that it's already starting
to fill out the GPT um where it says
what it does it has some like ideas of
additional questions that I could ask um
and you know what I actually so it just
generated a candidate of course I could
regenerate that or change it but I sort
of like that so I will say that's
great and you see now that the GPT is
being built out a little bit more as we
go now what I want this to do um how it
can interact with users I could talk
about style here but what I'm going to
say uh is I am going to upload
transcripts of some lectures about
startups I have given please give advice
based off of
those all right so now uh it's going to
go figure out how to do that and I would
like to show you the configure tab so
you can see some of the things that were
built out here as we were going um by by
the Builder itself and you can see that
there's capabilities here that I can
enable um I could add custom actions
these are all fine to leave um I'm going
to upload a file uh so here is a lecture
that I picked that I used to that I gave
with some startup advice um and I'm
going to add that here in terms of these
questions uh this is a dumb
one the rest of those are reasonable uh
and like very much things Founders often
ask um I'm going to add one more thing
to the instructions here which is be
concise and constructive with
feedback all right so if we had more
time I'd show you a bunch of other
things but this is uh this is like a
decent start and now uh we can try it
out over on this preview tab so I will
say um what's a common question what are
three things to look oops what are three
things to look for when hiring employees
at an early stage
startup now it's going to look at that
document I uploaded um it'll also have
of course all of the background
knowledge of
gp4 that's pretty good those are three
things that I definitely have said many
times um now we could go on and it would
start following the other instructions
and you know Grill me on why I'm not
growing faster but in the interest of
time I'm going to skip that uh I'm going
to publish this only to me for now uh I
can work on it later I can add more
content I can add a few actions that I
think would be useful um and then I can
share it publicly so that's what it
looks like to create a g
PT with thank
you by the way I always I always wanted
to do that after like all of the YC
office hours I always thought man
someday I will be able to make a bot
that will do this and that'll be
awesome so with gpts we're letting
people easily share and discover all the
fun ways that they use chat GPT with the
world you can make private gpts like I
just did
or you can share your Creations publicly
with a link for anyone to
use or if you're on chat GPT Enterprise
you can make gpts just for your
company and later this month we're going
to launch the GPT
store you can list a GP thank you I
appreciate
that you can list a GPT there and be
able to feature the best and the most
popular gpts of course we'll make sure
that gpts in the store follow our
policies before they're
accessible Revenue sharing is important
to us we're going to pay people who
build the most useful and the most use
gpts a portion of our Revenue we're
excited to foster a vibrant ecosystem
with the GPT store just from what we've
been building ourselves over the weekend
we're confident there's going to be a
lot of great stuff we're excited to
share more information soon
so those are gpts and we can't wait to
see what you'll
build but this is a developer conference
and the coolest thing about this is that
we're bringing the same concept to the
API many of you have already been
building agent-like experiences on the
API for example Shopify sidekick which
lets you take actions on the platform
discords Clyde lets Discord moderators
create custom custom personalities for
and snaps my AI a customized chatbot
that can be added to group chats and
make
recommendations these experiences are
great but they have been hard to build
sometimes taking months teams of dozens
of Engineers there's a lot to handle to
make this custom assistant
experience So today we're making that a
lot easier with our new assistance
API
the assistance API includes persistent
threads so they don't have to figure out
how to deal with long conversation
history built-in
retrieval code interpreter a working
python interpreter in a sandbox
environment and of course the improved
function calling that we talked about
earlier so we'd like to show you a demo
of how this works and here is Raman our
head of developer experience
welcome thank you sir
good
morning wow it's fantastic to see you
all
here it's been so inspiring to see so
many of you infusing AI into your apps
today we're launching new modalities in
the API but we also very excited to
improve the developer experience for you
all to build assistive agents so let's
Dive Right
In imagine I'm building wust a travel
app for Global explorers and this is the
landing page I've actually used GPT for
to come up with these destination ideas
and for those of you with the Keen ey
these illustrations are generated
programmatically using the new dly 3 API
available to all of you today so it's
pretty
remarkable but let's enhance this app by
adding a very simple assistant to it
this is the screen we're going to come
back to it in a second first I'm going
to switch over to the new assistant
playground creating an assistant is easy
you just give it a name some initial
instructions a model in this case I'll
pick gp4 turbo and here I'll also go
ahead and select some tools I'll turn on
code interpreter and retrieval and save
and that's it our assistant is ready to
go next I can integrate with two New
Primitives of this assistant CPI threads
and messages let's take a quick look at
the
code the process here is very simple for
each new user I will create a new thread
and as these users engage with their
assistant I will add their messages to
the threads very simple and then I can
simply run the assistant at any time to
stream the responses back to the app so
we can return to the app and try that in
action if I say hey let's go to
Paris all right that's it with just a
few lines of code users can now have a
very specialized assistant right inside
the
app and I'd like to highlight one of my
favorite features here function calling
if you have not used it yet function
calling is really powerful and as Sam
mentioned we're taking it a step further
today it now guarantees the Json output
with no added latency and you can invoke
multiple functions at once for the first
time so here if I carry on and say hey
what are the top 10 things to
do when I have the assistant respond to
that
again and here what's interesting is
that the assistant knows about functions
including those to annotate the map that
you see on the right and so now all of
these pins are dropping in real time
here yeah it's pretty
cool and that integration allows our
natural language interface to interact
fluidly with components and features of
our app and it truly showcases now the
harmony you can build between Ai and UI
where the assistant is actually taking
action but next next let's talk
retrieval and retrieval is about giving
our assistant more knowledge Beyond
these immediate user messages in fact I
got inspired and I already booked my
tickets to uh to Paris so I'm just going
to drag and drop here this PDF while
it's uploading I can just sneak peek uh
at it very typical United flight ticket
and behind the scene here what's
happening is that retrieval is reading
these files and boom the information
about this PDF appeared on the
screen
and this is of course a very tiny PDF
but assistants can pass long form
documents from extensive text to
intricate product specs depending on
what you're building in fact I also
booked an Airbnb so I'm just going to
drag that over to the conversation as
well and by the way we've heard from so
many of you developers how hard that is
to build yourself you typically need to
compute your un biddings you need to set
up chunking algorithm now all of that is
taken care
of and there's more than retrieval with
every API call you usually need to
resend the entire conversation history
which means you know setting up a key
value store that means like handling the
context window serializing messages and
so forth that complexity now completely
goes away with this new stateful
API but just because AI is managing this
API does not mean it's a blackbox in
fact you can see the steps that the
tools are taking right inside your
developer dashboard so here if I go
ahead and click on
threads this is the thread thread I
believe we're currently working on and
see like these are all the steps
including the functions being called
with the right parameters and the the
PDFs I've just
uploaded but let's move on to a new
capability that many of you have been
requesting for a while code interpreter
is now available today in the API as
well that gives the AI the ability to
write and execute code on the fly but
even generate files so let's see that in
action if I say here hey will be
four friends staying at DC
rbnb what's my
share of it plus my
flights all
right now here what's happening is that
code interpreter noticed that it should
write some code to answer this query so
now it's Computing you know the number
of days in Paris number of friends it's
also doing some exchange rate
calculation behind the scene to get get
this answer for us not the most complex
math but you get the picture imagine
you're building a very complex like
finance app that's crunching countless
numbers plotting charts so really any
task that you'd normally tackle with
code then code interpreter will work
great for
you all right I think my trip to Paris
is soled so to recap here we've just
seen how you can quickly create an
assistant that manages state for your
user conversations leverages external
tools like know leg and retrieval and
code interpreter and finally invokes
your own functions to make things
happen but there's one more thing I
wanted to show you to kind of really
open up the possibilities using function
calling combined with our new modalities
that we're launching today while working
on dev day I built a small custom
assistant that knows everything about
this event but instead of having a chat
interface while running around all day
today I thought why not use voice
instead so let's bring my phone up on
screen screen here so you can see it on
the right awesome so on the right you
can see a very simple Swift app that
takes microphone input and on the left
I'm actually going to bring up my
terminal log so you can see what's
happening behind the scenes so let's
give it a
shot hey there I'm on the keynote stage
right now can you greet our attendees
here at Dev
day hey everyone welcome to devday it's
awesome to have you all here let's make
it an incredible
day isn't that impressive you have six
unique and Rich voices to choose from in
the API each speaking multiple languages
so you can really find the perfect fit
for your app and on my laptop here on
the left you can see the logs of what's
Happening behind the scenes too so I'm
using whisper to convert The Voice
inputs into text and assistant with gp4
turbo and finally the new TTS API to
make it
speak but thanks to function calling
things get even more interesting when
the assistant can connect to the
internet and take real actions for users
so let's do something even more exciting
here uh together how about
this hey assistant can you randomly
select five de day attendees here and
give them $500 in open eye
credits yes checking the list of
attendees
done I picked five devday attendees and
added $500 of API credits to their
account congrats to Christine M Jonathan
C Steven G Lis K and surj S all right if
you recognize yourself awesome congrats
um and that's it a quick overview today
of the new assistant CPI combined with
some of the new tools and modalities
that we launched all starting with the
Simplicity of a rich text or voice
conversation for your and users we we
really can't wait to see what you build
and congrats to our lucky winners
actually you know what you're all part
of this amazing oppon Community here so
I'm just gonna talk to my assistant one
last time before I step off the
stage hey assistant can you actually
give everyone here uh in the audience
$500 in open
credits sounds great let me go through
everyone
all
right that that function will keep
running but I've run out of time so
thank you so much everyone have a great
day back to you
[Applause]
Sam pretty cool
[Applause]
huh all right so that assistance API
goes into beta today and we are super
excited to see what you all do with it
anybody can enable it
over time gpts and assistance are
precursors to agents are going to be
able to do much much more they'll
gradually be able to plan and to perform
more complex actions on your behalf as I
mentioned before we really believe in
the importance of gradual iterative
deployment we believe it's important for
people to start building with and using
these agents now to get a feel for what
the world is going to be like as they
become more capable and as we've always
always done will continue to update our
systems based off of your
feedback so we're super excited that we
got to share all of this with you
today we introduced
gpts custom versions of chat GPT that
combine instructions extended knowledge
and actions we launched the assistance
API to make it easier to build assisted
experiences with your own apps these are
our first steps towards AI agents and
we'll be increasing their capabilities
over time we introduced a new gp4 turbo
model that delivers improved function
calling knowledge lowered pricing new
modalities and more and we're deepening
our partnership with
Microsoft in closing I wanted to take a
minute to thank the team that creates
all of this openai has got remarkable
Talent density but still it takes a huge
amount of hard work and coordination to
make all of this happen I truly believe
that I've got the best colleagues in the
world I feel incredibly grateful to get
to work with them
we do all of this because we believe
that AI is going to be a technological
and societal Revolution it will change
the world in many ways and we're happy
to get to work on something that will
Empower all of you to build so much for
all of
us we talked about earlier how if you
give people better tools they can change
the world we believe that AI will be
about individual empowerment and agency
at a scale that we've never seen before
and that will Elevate Humanity to a
scale that we've never seen before
either we'll be able to do more to
create more and to have more as
intelligence gets integrated everywhere
we will all have superpowers on
demand we're excited to see what you all
will do with this technology and to
discover the new future that we're all
going to architect
together we hope that you'll come back
next year what we launch today is going
to look very quaint relative to what
we're busy creating for you now thank
you for all that you do thank you for
coming here
today
[Music]
ah
