hello everyone my name is Prashant
Agarwal and I'm working a senior search
specialist solution architect in AWS
where I primarily focus on Amazon Open
Source service today I'm going to talk a
little bit about what Amazon open search
services and how you can get started in
this containment before getting started
let's take a step back and see what is
search all about so for example you go
into an e-commerce website to buy a
keyboard you enter the search term as
keyboard and then you are presented with
a list of keyboards with different
brands and prices and then you have an
option to filter through with respect to
what brand and price range you are
looking for so searching through whole
Universal products in the store and then
coming up with that one particular thing
that actually makes your goal is what
search all about so let's see what
Amazon open source services so open
source service is a fully managed
service that makes it easy to deploy
operate and scale open search cluster in
AWS Cloud self-managed open search or
elasticsearch takes time and specialize
expertise by you can increase
operational excellence by using a
popular open source solution using open
search then talking about the security
you can audit and secure your data with
a Data Center and network architecture
using built-in certifications and then
you can meet and maintain high security
for authentication authorization and
encryption and so on then obserability
is what everyone talking about it now
right so with Open Source service you
can systematically detect potential
threats and react to a systems State
through an open source solution for
object building last but not the least
cost for log and application data
increases as the data grows with Open
Source service you can optimize time and
resources for your strategic work by
using different storage tier for your
data so let's see what are different use
cases for the open search service at a
high level there are two use keys with
Open Source service so one under log
analytics you might need to do
application monitoring where you want to
look at the latency so you may want to
look at the error code to see what is
causing an issue to your application in
case of security you may want to find
out fraud or you want to make sure that
you protect your application and
services from denial of service attack
while talking about such use case you
might want to go to an e-commerce
platform to find the product quickly as
well as you might need the personalized
recommendation provided by those search
engine as per your interest now we know
what is Open Source service and what are
the use case so let's quickly jump on to
see how the search engine works
interaction model for search engine are
really simple it's a rest API based
technology you have generators of data
whether it's your database that has your
application data or it could be log data
generated from server application iot
devices Etc once you receive those data
you need to convert them into the Json
and then send to the open search then
open search is going to index all of the
fields this is one of the different
theater like some of the database
solution provide limited indexing
capabilities for lookups but with open
Search Everything is indexed Everything
is searchable now you have data in your
open search you can use the rest API for
text search or you can use the
aggregation queries for your log data
where your business user can log in to
open such dashboard and run interactive
visualization and transport so let's see
it in action so here we will log into
the AWS console and see how does it
works
so if you go to your AWS console you can
look you can search for the open search
service over here
then once you go to the open field
service you can click on the domain and
once you go to The Domain it will list
on all the domains what you have within
the service so in this in in this demo
I'm going to kind of show you how you
can create a domain and what all option
you have so you have an option to
specify the domain name so like say I am
specifying 0 to 0 and my domain name
then it will have an option to specify
the end point so endpoint like if you
want to give your open search dashboard
as your company domain URL so for
example like demo dot my company.com so
that can be specified as part of the end
point
then there are three different
deployment type like one is the
production another one is development
and testing and then you have the option
for the custom so in case of production
it will be kind of selecting the
multi-ag architecture with the dedicated
Master node whereas in case of
development and testing or like in the
custom one you have an option to specify
different kind of setup with respect to
the AG or kind of specifying the master
nodes and the data nodes then it will
pop up a list of all the versions
supported within the open search service
so like it is kind of showing a 1.3
which is the latest within the open
search and then 7.10 and 6.8 which is
the latest in the 7.x and 6.x series but
open search does support all the version
starting from elasticsearch 1.5 up till
7.10 and then all the version open
search 1.021.3 if you and you can kind
of toggle it by using this particular
button then next you can enable or
disable the auto tune which is kind of
an advanced feature within the Open
Source service which can do some sort of
optimization out of the box next you can
specify the number of edges you want to
run your solution with like I'm
selecting the 3ag architecture and then
selecting the instance types like it
supports R Series M series then I series
as well as the C Series instances which
you can choose from after specifying how
many nodes you want you can specify how
much disk you want to give at each data
node so that can be specified under
under this particular option for the EBS
storage per node then open search has
the different storage steering as I was
talking about to kind of store like data
at very low cost like you can enable the
ultravomb node and then it supports two
kind of ultra worm like Ultra one dot
medium and the ultra worm one dot large
so you can select the node depending
upon how much data you are going to
store into the ultravomb and then if you
want to even store the data into the
cold here so you can enable or disable
the cold storage Azure then you have an
option to specify the dedicated Master
node like as I mentioned earlier like
typically for the production workload we
do recommend setting up the dedicated
dedicated Master node as well
then Open Source service will take the
snapshot and that's kind of a backup
which will be taken up every hour and it
will be retained for 14 days under the
network option you have an option to
choose like whether you want to deploy
your domain under the VPC or whether you
want to make it public so say if I want
to kind of deploy the domain under the
public access then I can select that
option and then I can enable the find
and access control to kind of set up the
granular control across my data then you
have an option to either specify the
imar and as the master user or you can
create a master user so like here you
can specify the username and password
once you have specified those details
then you have another option to kind of
provide the single sign-on for your open
search dashboard and here like you can
have third party integration with the
single sign-on or like you can bring
your own identity provider such as like
octoping Etc
then you can Define the access policy
whether you want it to be controlled
only using the find and access control
or if you want to set up any domain
level or the if you want to set up any
domain level access policy last you can
set up the encryption so like if you
have your own AWS KMS key you can bring
it up over here if not then AWS will own
and manage one a key for you and it will
be set up by domain once you specify all
the options you can click you can click
on creating of this particular domain
and once it will take roughly around
five minutes to kind of create the
domain and once domain is created you
can go to your domain list and you can
see whatever domain you have created so
I have created a Zero to Hero domain
earlier for this particular demo and
then it specifies all the detail with
respect to configuration like how many
data nodes you are having how many
masternodes you have and then on top you
have the link to access the open search
dashboard so now if you click on the
open search dashboard it will be popping
of the username and password screen to
login but I have already logged in so
it's not popped up and then what I'm
going to do is I'm going to run a kind
of sample indexing and searching and so
how does the search works within the
open search for that you can kind of
click on the hamburger icon on the top
left and then go to the dev tools
so here I have a script to create an
index so I'm creating an index with one
sorts and to replica once my index is
created I have a bulk API which is going
to index some of the sample movie data
from the IMDb and once I run that it
will index all the data what I have in
this bulk payload once my data is
indexed you can run the search query as
simple as like specifying the index name
followed by the underscore search which
will give you like how many documents
are there in this particular index and
then it will also give you top 20
documents for that index which where you
can see all the fields within that
particular document so like it has the
director name release date ratings then
what are the title actors Etc because it
is the movie database now if you want to
kind of search for a specific term or
keyword then you can run the term query
so here I am going to search for the
like what iron which is there in the
title so once I run this query you can
see my total count from 1499 has been
reduced to 8 so that means there are
eight matching documents which has iron
in the Titan but it could be like the
movie title is Iron Man over here but in
the second one it's like generation iron
or it could be something else dot dot
iron but now if I know like I'm looking
for the Iron Man I can even run the kind
of complex query or the Boolean query
where I specify multiple search
condition for that one so like I want to
match the title as iron as well as I
know like Robert Downey is the actor on
the Iron Man so I can specify those kind
of filter criteria where I can search
for the specific terms across different
fields within the document now if I run
this query you can see like out of those
eight matching records for the iron now
I have got only three documents because
now it's returning me Iron Man Iron Man
3 and Iron Man 2. so now it's getting me
all the movies which has the diet iron
and then actors as Robert Downey so this
is how this search works within the open
search so like I just like how you can
index the data and then how you can run
the search query apart from this search
you can also use the dashboards where
you can kind of generate the or create
it as per depending upon your log data
so I have a sample data coming from web
traffic which are the details such as
the unique visitors and like from what
country your data is being generated and
what kind of operating system you users
are using so depending upon the fields
what you have in your logs you can
create those visualizations and then
those individual visualization can be
plotted into the single dashboard which
can give you a high level overview
across your application it could be as I
mentioned earlier it could be your
latency or it could be your error rates
or kind of an overall Access Data within
your applications
so with that that's what I have with
respect to the demo so what do we have
next so you can get started with Amazon
open fit service by signing up to AWS
account you get a free trial for a year
so check out the QR code for getting you
started
next if you are curious to know how the
customers are using Amazon Open Source
service
you can check out our customary stories
over here and then at last you can refer
our dive into Amazon open field service
Workshop which will help you to learn
more about the open search by setting up
a domain ingesting some of the sample
data and then running the query against
which data sets with that thanks a lot
for listening and feel free to reach out
to us if you have any questions
