do you ever feel like F1 fans have this
habit of switching up on Daniel Ricardo
because Daniel Ricardo lately I mean he
hasn't been looking too good on track
and I think that that is a fair
assessment even though we are early on
into the season and I have a few reasons
as to why I think so many people these
days are a bit more critical to Daniel
Ricardo but I also think this doesn't
only just apply to Daniel Ricardo I
think Formula 1 is in this sort of
transitional period at the moment with
young talent and I guess having an F1
seat I think that teams are also looking
at it differently and I just wanted to
give my thoughts so Daniel Ricardo's
stint at McLaren I guess we can sort of
start there it was very highly
anticipated to see Daniel Ricardo go up
against Lando Norris who I think a lot
of people were interested to look at
that battle I mean how good was Lando
because Daniel was in some way The
Benchmark he was a proven F1 driver a
proven race winner who had been to
another team Renault and even though the
car wasn't that great he still showed a
lot of Promise he still put on some good
consistent performances and I think
everyone wanted to see Daniel back
fighting for race wins like we know he
is capable of doing in his prime Daniel
Ricardo is one of the most exciting
drivers
F1 has had in the modern era I think
Daniel Ricardo got people off their
seats excited it was always an
entertaining show when Daniel was
fighting for a win the move to McLaren
it just didn't work out and it wasn't
looking like Daniel was going to get
better and better even though he did
manage to snag a race win at Monza which
of course has gone down as I mean an
incredible day not only for Daniel but
in F1 now the interesting thing a lot of
people were discussing when Daniel
Ricardo went back to Red Bull as a
reserve driver without a full-time seat
was that Red Bull were very much
communicating to everybody that what you
saw with Daniel Ricardo at McLaren that
just wasn't the Daniel Ricardo that
exists Red Bull claimed that when Daniel
got back into the simulator he was much
stronger with Red Bull and they sort of
BL named all these problems Daniel
having to alter his driving style at
McLaren to a style which didn't suit him
was not very natural to him so I think
instantly a lot of people thought well
hey if Daniel Ricardo goes back to Red
Bull or even alpat which is now
obviously known as whatever they're
known as we might see the old Daniel
Ricardo back and really we haven't just
yet Daniel Ricardo of course replaced
Nick Dev during the
2023 season and the reason this is so
hotly debated is because I think the
Liam Lawson factor is really legit Liam
Lawson's stepping in for a couple of
races to actually replace Daniel Ricardo
during Daniel's injury Liam was able to
show what he's made of and I think a lot
of people knew how good Liam was but
when you get that confirmation in
Formula 1 that look this guy's clearly
got some potential clearly got some
skill a lot of people want to see that
person in that se fulltime now some
people will say that Daniel Ricardo's
time has passed there may not be a stage
in his career again where he will be at
the front fighting for wins consistently
that Daniel Ricardo that we all know and
love so much and that very well may be
the case the reason I'm not going to
jump to that conclusion just yet is
because we are only two races in as of
the making of this video now the RB this
season is looking like the strongest car
no it's not one thing that I guess
poured a bit of fuel on the fire was
Daniel seeming to I guess spin on his
own in Saudi Arabia a bit of a concern I
guess you could look at it as that but
at the same time I mean we've seen even
the best drivers make some of the most
ridiculous and shocking mistakes I guess
what I'm trying to say is that it could
just be one of those things sort of like
how at hungry do you remember when Max
just spun on his own for no reason or
when Lewis went straight on in Baku
there are other factors here sometimes
drivers make mistakes and I'm not trying
to say that Daniel Ricardo is like Lewis
Hamilton and Max v stappen he's that
level of greatness it's not what I'm
trying to say no matter how good you are
of a driver whatever level you are at
sometimes you make mistakes now it could
be more than that maybe throughout this
season we will see that Dani Ricardo is
clearly not at that level anymore I just
think it is too early to say I feel like
everyone just flip-flops with Daniel
Ricardo one minute they want him back in
F1 and then when he gets back in F1
everyone is on his back saying that he's
washed he's not good enough he's not
that guy and I think this doesn't just
apply to him I think this would go for
any driver because right now I want to
go back to what I said in the start
about F1 being in a transitional period
I think this is very legit to say look
the young talent coming up in F1 right
now is so exciting it is incredible in
my opinion I think we're going to be at
a stage where pay drivers may just be a
thing of the past look that may be a
little bit bold but I think the fans as
well as the teams and yes that is
obviously a team decision teams make
that decision who is going to drive for
them if they want a pay driver or not
but the reason I I think fans are so
aggressive with this sort of you're
washed you're finished get out is
because fans are so excited and so Keen
to see these young guys in F1 fulltime
sort of like Liam Lawson people want to
see him in F1 full time because they got
that small snippet over a few races and
he was clearly good enough he was good
enough for F1 other drivers now like
olle bman clearly a future star Kimmy
Antonelli another one someone who is so
highly anti anticipated I mean people
call him the next Max a stpp and it's
that sort of level of hype F1 fans want
to see those guys in the car ASAP I
think the pool of talent is so
impressive and so difficult to turn a
blind eye to I just don't think any
amount of money especially in the
direction in which F1 is going I think
it would be a silly decision to choose
money over someone that is clearly so
talented they could be the next star of
your team they could make an impact on
your team teams like Ferrari Mercedes
Red Bull you know the big teams they
don't need the money they're not going
to go for pay drivers it's just not
necessary for them but I think the other
teams that see opportunity I think they
really need to go for those drivers and
I think that they will I think the
factor of money a pay driver big
sponsorship dollars I think it's going
to fade and fade F1 is now in that new
position of yes F1 has always been a
huge sport but when you look at it
commercially the the attraction the
attention that sponsors are putting on
F1 the the amount of sponsors that just
want to get their name on an F1 car now
is just
absolutely wild so I don't think teams
are going to have to rely on pay drivers
yes there are still pay drivers in F1
right now but I think a lot of people
have that sense that they're not going
to be racing in F1 for much longer
they're probably going to get the boot
so let me know your thoughts on this I
would really love to get your opinion on
Daniel Ricardo the future of pay drivers
please very interested to hear your
thoughts if you enjoy this video I would
really appreciate it if you hit like and
subscribed feel free to follow me on
Instagram for some behind the scenes
content and future video sneak peeks as
always I truly appreciate your support
and I will see you in the next
one
[Music]
